Section C, Advanced Offer Stacking. In your heart, you know, the juice is worth the squeeze. Matthew Kidman, The Girl Next Door. Lost Chapter, Author Note. This next section starts off with a different way of visualizing maximizing lifetime gross profit per customer. I find it to be a more mathematical way of figuring out what to sell and when. After this primer, the remainder of the chapters are a hodgepodge of attraction offers, upsell offers, and continuity offers that didn't make it into $100 million money models. They were typically either too hard or too niched. In either case, I didn't think they applied to a wide enough array of businesses. That being said, for the right business, they might change everything for you. Think of these as more bullets to add to your $100 million money model. Feel free to skip around the chapters and read descriptions to find the ones that might work for you. In this section of the book, we'll look at what I believe to be the best piece of my winning strategy. Understanding and executing this concept of stacking offers has made me generational wealth. Ironically, I don't think it's difficult. I just think most people don't know the concept even exists. I promised you at the beginning of the book that the deeper you get in the book, the juicier the nuggets would be. This is exactly what I'm talking about. The earlier materials are no less important. They're just foundational. Just as we need to learn how to draw before we can paint, a basic skill begets a more advanced and valuable skill. Understanding offer stacking will allow you to compete in any marketplace, on any traffic platform. It can even be used to starve your competitors. I try to be good-hearted as an individual, but I play to win, as should you. The next few chapters are your new winning strategy. Basic outline of the section. The backend forms the front end. That means the more money you make per customer, the more you can spend to acquire customers. Making a Grand Slam offer is both about lowering the cost of acquisition and making more per customer. In this section, I will show you how to layer or stack Grand Slam offers on top of each other to create higher lifetime value, aka the backend. So this is making a series of Grand Slam offers in a row in order to increase how much a customer is worth to the business. This is where things get wild.
