Attraction Offer Free Presentations Lost Chapter Author Note I ended up cutting this because it got too close to pitching and selling. A book may be for another time. But this is one of the most widely used ways to get customers. It's not incredibly compelling, but it is simple and effective. In June of 2015, I was at a huge marketing conference. I scanned the speaker list and a presentation caught my eye. How my weird niche funnel is making me $17,137 per day and how you can ethically copy it in under 10 minutes or less. It didn't have anything to do with gyms, but it looked more interesting than the other options. Besides, if I could find something useful in all this marketing stuff, I'd consider it a win. I'd have been thrilled to take home $17,137 a month, let alone per day. So I went to check it out. The room was packed to the brim. I barely had room to stand. He started the presentation by dropping a bomb. I'm giving away my Ferrari to someone here today. All you have to do is opt in at this website to find out more. What? He made it sound like it was no big deal. It was his Ferrari. This guy must be legit. He then told us about his special money-making websites. He made them in a specific way and put them in a special order to make people buy more of his stuff. Then he showed us a bit about how to make them for ourselves. What he did clearly worked. And it made a lot of sense. Too much sense. If I did what he did, I could have what he had. I was sold before he even presented an offer. If he had started with, but 60 minutes in, I bet a third of the room would have taken out their credit cards. I sure would have. That's the power of using presentations to get people to buy your stuff. They work. Description. Buyers need to know enough about your stuff to buy. The more expensive or complex the thing, the more information they need. Presentations that educate the audience with the intention of converting them into customers excel at bridging this information gap. They work especially well for complex and expensive stuff for three reasons. 1. So if a person shows up to a presentation, you have a good chance they'll pay more attention than they would in an otherwise noisy advertising environment. 2. You keep them for a long enough time to explain the thing and provide value. Just like presentations require people's attention and they know it, they also understand that presentations have a time investment. So if a person shows up to a presentation, you have a good chance they'll not only pay more attention, but they'll do it for longer. This makes presentations perfect for making sure leads have all the information they need. 3. Make your offer when they're most motivated to take it. A good presentation clarifies the problem they came to solve, what life would be like after a thing solves that problem, how fast and easy it is, showcases loads of people like them who succeeded with it, and resolves their most common concerns about buying. By the end, people should see a fast, easy, low-risk way to solve their problem. And at the moment, they will be the most motivated to buy. So that's when we make our offer. Presentations can last anything from 15 seconds to 15 days. The exact length of the presentation matters less, only that the more expensive and more complicated the thing, the longer they tend to take. For example, when looking at GymLaunch, 78% of customers consumed at least two pieces of long-form content before making a purchase. This was a groundbreaking finding. We then reverse-engineered our sales process to force people to consume at least two pieces of long-form content. This turned total strangers into people who wanted to buy our stuff. This consumption process reverse-engineers the trust process to create qualified prospects who are ready to buy. This is the core of marketing, educating a consumer to the point of making a purchasing decision. Sometimes it's a 60-second ad if you're selling a $67 product, or it's a two-day workshop to sell a $100,000 consulting service. Bottom line, the amount of time you take educating the consumer is directly related to the price and the amount of trust needed. The bigger the plane, the longer the runway has to be in order for the plane to take off. A toy plane can take off in about 20 feet, whereas a 747 Dreamlifter needs almost two miles. Free Presentation Examples Free XYZ Dinner Free Neuropathy Dinner Free Diabetic Dinner Free Dinner gets people in the door and turns the meal you make to a presentation between 60 and 90 minutes. At the end of the presentation, you make an offer for a product that covers the cost of getting everyone to the dinner, ideally more. Of those people who buy, you set up an individual appointment to offer a much higher ticket item. Benchmark. Aim to convert a quarter of the room to the lower offer. Of those who take the lower offer, aim to convert at least a third of them into the higher offer. For example, a 100-person audience would have 25 or so people take the lower offer, and then 8 or so take the higher offer. Free 90-Minute Masterclass A 90-minute presentation is structured to break core beliefs around accomplishing their goal, similar to the dinner option, but you do it remotely. Benchmark. Convert 10% of those people on the call when an offer is presented. Free 5-Day Challenge. Give four live 60- to 90-minute presentations Monday through Thursday. Each presentation covers some useful aspect of the problem that they want to solve or result they want to achieve. Then make your offer on Friday. You can also make the offers earlier in the week as well. This works especially well for converting ice-cold traffic for lower costs and very high-cost offers. Each day, you would focus your presentation on some core belief that prevents them from buying and, along the way, provide enough useful content they can apply today and get value from it today. Example of 5-Day Challenge Ideas for Different Industries. Entrepreneurship. Free Find Your Niche Entrepreneurship Challenge. Real Estate Consulting. Free Find Your First Real Estate Deal. Business Flipping Opportunity. Free 5-Day Buy a Business with $0 Down. Challenge Sales Consulting. Free 5-Day Make Your First High-Ticket Sale. Weight Loss. Free 5-Day Plateau Buster. Addiction. Free 5-Days to Freedom Challenge. Pain. Free 5-Day Pain Release Challenge. Life Coach. Free 5-Days to Get Unstuck Challenge. Benchmark. Convert 2-5% of people who sign up for the Free Multi-Day Challenge. One of the personal benefits is that you're delivering real value to these people, even if they choose not to buy from you. So in the worst case scenario, you build goodwill to the marketplace. Free 3-Day Virtual Summit. Offer. Come see speakers over 3 full days to talk about their topics of expertise. Each topic covers one aspect of their problem or goal. At the last presentation of the second day and the second presentation of the third day, you offer to help them implement the nuggets and strategies covered in all the talks. This sets up for the highest ticket offers of all because it has the most possible content for any reasonable person to consume in a row. 3 full days for example. Friday Midday through Sunday. As a personally surprising finding, the days of the week do not matter. Do them whenever is most convenient for you and your team. Structure each of the days, which would be 4-plus presentations, around one of the core beliefs, found below in the Pro Tips section. Then make a pitch at the end of day 2. Re-pitch on day 3. Ending the event with some inspiration to take action tends to work well too and preserves goodwill. Benchmark. Aim to convert 10% of those attending the final day. This varies widely based on the number of people in the room, the cost of the offer, the costs of the tickets to get there, etc. Free strategy call. This will typically be step 1 of a 2-step sales process, which I will cover at depth in a future book currently unwritten. But fundamentally, you are pitching a value-add call, which can act as a pre-qualification call for a later sale. On this call, you are triaging to ensure that the person you are on the phone with, number 1, has the budget for what you're selling, number 2, has the authority to make a buying decision, or will have those people on the next call, number 3, wants what you're selling, number 4, wants to start within the timeframe you deem optimal. The acronym for this is BANT, which is Budget Authority Need Timing. You provide value on this call by listening and identifying their needs and offering solutions. If they want help with implementation, you can make them an offer. Benchmark. Convert 25% of those who make the second call. Pro tips. Presentations, whether one at 60-90 minutes, like the dinner, or 12+, or 60-plus minutes, like the summit, all serve to play on three core limiting beliefs. The more presentations you have, the deeper you can get. Their function stays the same each way. The three core limiting beliefs. The results must come easy. I must get the best possible results. Results must lead to attention and approval. So let's break those down. Number 1. Results must come easy. This product is easy to use. This is not frustrating or overwhelming. You can do it. This product or service lives up to its claims. Here's how the universe will work to help me. It is fair. It will work. It was unfair before this because you had an information disadvantage, but now you don't. If the universe is unfair, then life is horrible, but the universe will bend to your will now that you have earned it, and you will get status because you deserve it. Number 2. I must get the best results possible. If you have messed up in the past, it's not your fault. It's someone else's or something else's fault. Failing would make you feel horrible, which you won't, which means this product is awesome. Number 3. Results must lead to attention and approval, aka status. This product will position you above other people. Here's how you can get everyone to act the way you want to act and be treated the way you want to be treated. External forces will bend to your will. If people have not acted the way you wanted in the past, it's not your fault. It's someone else's or something else's fault. If people don't want what you want, then they are horrible, but people will, which is why this works. Anything that will get more people to consume will boost sales. This is why email follow-up, texting campaigns, and other participation-based value ads create higher conversion numbers. As a rule to sell by, the more time they spend with you, the more they'll spend with you. The better the messaging is at aligning and playing to these three core beliefs, the better your conversion will get. Long-form presentation-based selling depends on providing value through entertainment, providing lessons, and breaking limiting beliefs. Your focus should be to get them to watch the whole thing, provide value in an entertaining way, and build goodwill. Long-form offers excel at converting cold traffic into buyers, and they work particularly well selling one to many with larger audiences. Summary In general, the more expensive the offer, the more audiences want to learn about it before they make a purchase. In general, the colder the audience, the more exposure to a brand, business, or person it takes to build trust. Giving these high-ticket offers to cold audiences is one of the most difficult things to do in business. To make it work, you have to play the long game on the front end. The free presentation with an offer forces as much exposure as it can in as short of a window as reasonable. Free presentations, classes, activities, challenges, education build goodwill with warmer audiences and trust with colder ones. The more exposure they get, the higher ticket your offer can get. The more time they spend with you, the more expensive the thing you can sell. The faster they can get the exposure, the sooner you can make the offer worth success. Long-form methods do a great job at converting cold traffic into buyers and the best job when converting from larger audiences. Long-form presentation methods focus on providing value through entertainment, life lessons, and touching on limiting beliefs. They aim to retain the audience's attention throughout, deliver value in an engaging way, and build goodwill. Presentations, whether single 60-90 minute sessions or multiple hour-long sessions, align with three core limiting beliefs. Results must come easy, results must be the best as possible, and results must, in some way, lead to attention and approval. More and longer presentations delve deeper into these beliefs. It just comes down to keeping engagement during the presentation and maximizing the number of people who show up for the next. Follow-up efforts, SMS campaigns, and providing value before and after purchase can increase engagement show rates and then conversion rates.
