What's going on guys? I have a special special surprise for you. This is not announced publicly
so you guys will be the first one to hear it. But I have actually made my $100 million
offers audiobook which has been available on Amazon for the last two years and has been
top 100 throughout that whole time. It's now here free for you guys. And I did that because
I just want more people to have it and more people to share it. So the next few chapters
and episodes will be directly from the audiobook for your listening pleasure.
And my only ask is that you share it. Share it with somebody who you think it would benefit from.
And it would just mean the world to me and hopefully to them. Enjoy.
Welcome to the special edition of $100 million dollars offers. In this episode collab with the
game, we will be going over opening credits, dedication, start here, how we got here,
and grand slam offers. And I hope you enjoyed this book as much as I enjoyed making it for you.
And if it does provide you value, I hope you'll share it with a friend.
Dedication to Laila. You are my writer, die. A term used to describe a person, usually a woman
that is willing to do anything for their partner, friend or family, even in the face of danger.
Couldn't do this without you and wouldn't want to. You make waking up every day worth it.
Thank you for being unapologetically you. You're a down motherfucker to Trevor.
You're the best friend a guy could ask for. Thank you for spending hours upon hours
beating up the ideas that became this book with me. It would not have been half as good as it is
without your relentless drive for simplification and clarity, eternally grateful for our friendship.
You make me feel less alone in this world. Cheers to becoming old and crotchety.
Start here.
Outside's returns often come from betting against conventional wisdom. Conventional wisdom is usually
given a 10% chance of a hundred times payoff. You should take that bet every time.
But you're still going to be wrong nine times out of ten. We all know that if you swing for
the fences, you're going to strike out a lot. But you're also going to hit some home runs.
The difference between baseball and business, however, is that baseball has a truncated outcome
distribution. When you swing, no matter how well you connect with the ball, the most runs you can
get is four. In business, every once in a while, when you step up to the plate, you can score a thousand
runs. This long tail distribution of returns is why it's important to be bold. Big winners pay for
so many experiments. Jeff Bezos. As entrepreneurs, we make bets every day. We are gamblers,
gambling our hard earned money on labor, inventory, rent, marketing, etc. All with the hopes of a higher
payout. Oftentimes we lose, but sometimes we win and win big. However, there's a difference between
gambling and business and gambling in a casino. In a casino, the odds are stacked against you. With
skill, you can improve them but never beat them. In contrast, in business, you can improve your skills
to shift the odds in your favor. Simply stated, with enough skill, you can become the house.
After beginning a series of books on acquisition, it became apparent that I could not talk
about any other topic without first addressing the offer. The starting point of any conversation
to initiate a transaction with a customer. What you are literally providing them in exchange
for their money. That's where it all begins. This book is about how to make profitable offers.
Specifically, how to reliably turn advertising dollars into enormous profits, using a combination
of pricing, value, guarantees, and naming strategies. I call the proper combination of these
components a grand slam offer. I chose this term partially in homage to the above quote from
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, and because, like a grand slam in baseball, a grand slam offer is both
very good and very rare. Additionally, to extend the baseball metaphor, it takes no more effort to
make a grand slam offer than to strike out. The difference is dictated by the skill of the marketer
and how well he connects his offer with his audience's desires. In business, you can have so-so
offers, the singles and doubles that keep the game going, pay the bills, and keep the lights on.
But unlike baseball, where a grand slam scores a maximum of four runs, a grand slam offer in the
business world can score you a thousandfold payoff and a result in a world where you never need to work
again. It would be like connecting with the ball so well during one single at bat that you
automatically win every world series for the next hundred years. It takes years of practice to make
something as complicated as hitting a major league basketball into the bleachers look effortless.
Your stance, vision, prediction, ball speed, bat speed, and hit placement all must be perfect.
In marketing and customer acquisition, the process of getting new customers,
there are just as many variables that must all align to truly knock it out of the park.
But with enough practice and enough skill, you can turn the wild world of acquisition,
which will throw curveballs at you every day into a home run derby, knocking offer after offer
out of the stadium. To everyone else, your success will look unbelievable. But to you,
it will just feel like just another day at work. The greatest hitters of all time also have many
strikeouts. Just as there are many failed offers in the track record of great marketers,
we learn skills through failure and practice. We do this knowing that nine times out of ten,
we will be wrong. We still act boldly, hoping for that offer we connect with so well that it
results in our big payoff. The good news is that in business, you only need to hit one
grand slam offer to retire forever. I have done this four or five times in my life.
As for my track record, I have a 36 to one lifetime return on my advertising dollars over my
business career. Consider this my lifetime batting average, if you will. That means for every one
dollar I spend on advertising, I get $36 back, a 36 hundred percent return. That is my average
over eight years, and I continue to improve. This book is my attempt to share that scale with you,
with a specific focus on building grand slam offers, so you can experience the same levels of success.
It's also the first in a series of books meant to get entrepreneurs to financial freedom,
in plain words, fuck you money. Subsequent books in this series will look more deeply at getting
more customers, converting more prospects into clients, making those clients worth more, and other
lessons I wish I had learned earlier in scaling my businesses. Protit, faster, deeper learning by
reading and listening at the same time. Here's a life hack I discovered a long time ago.
If you listen to the audiobook while reading the ebook or physical book, you will increase your
reading speed and retain more information. The contents are being stored in more places in your
brain. This is how I read most things worth reading. I've priced my products as cheap as the
platform to allow me, so this is an employee to make an extra ninety-nine cents. Promise.
If you want to give it a try, go ahead and grab the audio version and see for yourself.
You might find it as valuable as I have, as someone who struggles to stay focused.
It took two days to talk this book out loud and record it. I figured I'd put this hack at the
beginning of the book, so you had a chance to do it if you found the first chapter valuable enough
to earn your attention. Section 1. How We Got Here, The Ugly Truth
Chapter 1. How We Got Here
Magic will find those with pure hearts, even when all seems lost. Morgan Rhodes.
December 24th, 2016. Christmas Eve. The room was pitch black. My shoes stuck to a floor covered
in dried soda and crushed bits of candy. My nostrils were full with the smell of step popcorn.
We had just shown up too late to get good seats and ended up pressing near the front of the
theater. Just a few rows in front of me. The movie's blazing projection occupied my entire field
of view. In the reflected glow, I could see the outlines of Leila's family's faces. They may as
well have been hypnotized. I envied them. They sat, entranced, soaking in their paid time off for
Christmas. Must be nice. Anybody else would have missed it, but Leila, my girlfriend at the time,
knew me too well. Anybody else would have thought I was watching the movie, but Leila could tell I was
staring blankly at the screen. My eyes not tracking with the movie. My face was pale. My cheekbones and
jawline appeared gone. Weeks of chronic stress had killed my appetite. What's wrong? She asked. I didn't
answer. She risked her hand on mine to get my attention. I didn't react. Within moments her
fingers tied around my wrist, and she looked at me, her eyes searching for mine. Your heart is racing,
she whispered, concerned. Without asking, she took my pulse. It was a hundred beat per minute,
nearly twice what it should be for a fit 27 year old male at rest in a cool dark room.
What's going on? She asked more forcibly, but still whispered. The truth is, I was terrified.
A few hours earlier. I looked like a giant. I sat scrunched up in a children's miniature playchair.
My knees almost touched my chest, even with my feet firmly planted on the old beige carpeted floor.
My laptop felt hot, sitting atop my steeply angled knees. Dolls and toys were scattered around me.
They stared at me with wide eyes and toothy grins. Motionless. I had been their entertainment
for the past few weeks. I was in Leila's parents' house. They had recently become grandparents and
used this spare bedroom as a playroom when their children visited. I didn't have a place to live,
so they were letting Leila and I stay there, quote, as long as we needed, end quote.
They had let me use the children's playroom as my office for my business, which at this point
felt almost as make believe as the stories they had told their grandchildren in this room.
I literally felt like I was playing dress up, except the stakes were real, and this was my life.
My ears were hot and red from the phone being pressed against them for what felt like hours.
I kept switching hands because my arms would tire from holding the phone out for so long.
I'm sorry, Mr. Homozi, the voice in the other end of the line said,
we have to hold on to these funds for the next six months. We've seen some irregular activity.
So this is precautionary. Are you fucking kidding me? 120 grand? I said, a precaution?
I'm sorry, sir, our underwriting team. Yeah, yeah, I heard you. I said, cutting them off. I don't
accept that. Sir, it's not up to me. It's just our problem. What am I going to tell my salesman?
There's a baby on the way and another one. Are you going to tell him he's not going to buy his
pregnant wife and newborn food? Are you going to pay his mortgage for him? I was seething.
Sir, you beginning it with unfazed apathy, just trying to deliver the news.
It's not yours to take. My aggression was quickly turning into desperation.
Shit, just send me half second pay my employees. It's Christmas Eve for fuck's sake.
Sir, we're going to be holding onto the entire of your funds for the next six months per your agreement.
The voice faded into the distance. Fuck. I hang up and check my accounts. 23,000, 36 dollars.
I owed my salesman a $22,000 commission check for 120,000 in sales I never got.
Without wanting to give myself the opportunity to think about, I wired it to him.
Negative 22,000 payment successful. Balance $1,036. Fuck.
The sunlight blinded me as we emerged from the matinee. Family shuffled in and out through the revolving
doors, making their happy memories. I was in a daze. Lila led me to the car, her hand wrapped firmly
around mind. What's wrong? What happened? Yes. The money isn't coming. What do you mean? It's delayed.
I exhaled in the feet. They're keeping it all. Can they do that? Apparently. I said stoically,
trying to maintain my composure in front of her parents. What are you going to do about the
commissions? I already paid him everything. I said without looking at her. Lila's concern turned a
dread. We sat in silence the whole way home. I stared out the window. She held my hand in hers.
There was more comforting than I anticipated. We'll get through this. 30 days earlier.
I decided to go all in on this new business I called Jim Watch. He was the idea. I would fly
around the country to Jim's and fill them up to full capacity using this new methodology that
hinged on an offer I had perfected when I owned my chain of gyms. Leading up to this moment,
I had sold five of my six gyms. The funds from selling them, my life's work, I'd put into an
account that I had with a new bartender. This money was supposed to be the seed money for our new
company. I was finally going to realize some level of success. My alarm went off. I groggly swung my
arm over, blindly clawing at the bedside table. I switched off the alarm. While Lila somehow managed
to sleep through the commotion. I laid their silently pulling up the bank accounts a daily
ritual. The balance said $300. Wait, that can be right. There was 46,000 in here yesterday. My
adrenaline surged. Looking closer, I saw minus 45,700 payment successful. I was frantic. The money
from selling all my gyms was gone. I checked where the money went to my, quote, partner, end quote.
He had taken all the money out. Fuck. The last four years of my life had vanished that fast.
I officially had nothing and even less to show for it. No gyms, no equipment, no employees,
nothing. I felt that inside. Adding insult to injury in that same 30-day period,
my mother was in critical condition because of a near fatal accident and was still under 24
hours of supervision. And I had told him my car and head on collision at 60 miles an hour and
earned a DUI as my consolation prize. This was the cherry on top. My one saving grace during this
time was selling a new challenge offer at a gym and collecting all the cash upfront as my fee
for turning their business around. So I did the only thing I knew. I sold. My salesman had done
$120,000 in a single month and I owed him $22,000 in commissions. The problem was the $120,000
never came. We need to talk. I said, as Lila and I went to the other room, I worked up to the
courage to speak, but stared at the floor, embarrassed. I've got nothing. As I door, I'm a sinking
ship and you don't have to stay here with me. She grabbed my chin and pulled my face towards hers
so she could look into my eyes. I would sleep with you under a bridge that became to that.
I would have cried tears of joy, but I was so emotionally exhausted that my response
appeared apathetic. I wouldn't stay with me. So we still going to do these launches starting
tomorrow, she asked. All my friends quit their jobs to do this. She's being matter of fact,
but it's still stuck. I felt defeated. Listen, this could go horribly wrong. I trust you. We'll
figure it out. I had two things left at this point. A grand slam offer and an old business credit card
with a $100,000 limit from when I had my gems. On the day after Christmas, two days after the
gut wrenching call with the payment processor, we were scheduled to launch six new gems at the same
time. Between airfare hotels, rental cars, gas and ad spend while multiplied by six, I was going
to be spending $3,300 per day of money I didn't have. My last dollar had gone to paying my salesman.
I still remember my hand shaking as the advertisement went live off to on. Just like that,
I was going into debt at a rate of $412 per working hour. Just like that, $3,300 per day began
getting deducted from my account. Minus $3,300 I now officially have nothing. Minus $3,300 I now
officially have less than nothing. Minus $3,300 I have $10,000 less than nothing. Minus $3,300 this
one decision is going to ruin my future forever. But things started shaping up. Here's what happened
that month, January 2017, as documented by my old processing records I dug up. In the physical book,
there's a chart that I am referencing. You can see the month along the left column and the revenue
collected on that month along the right. I made $100,117. It was just enough to cover the $3,300
day that had been coming off the credit card. It was actually working. I could hardly believe it.
I threw the Hail Mary and the University of Caution. I went from looking up bankruptcy lawyers
to figuring out what to do with $3 million in profits accrued within the first 12 months.
It felt surreal and in hindsight, it still kind of does. By the end of the year, we were doing $1.5
million per month. 12 months from then, $4.4 million per month. 24 months after that, we crossed
120 million in sales and donated $2 million to help fund equal opportunity and low income areas.
We met Embrofrenda Donald Schwarzenegger, my lifelong hero, and we were asked to become board members
of his charity after school all stars. 12 months after that, we now have a portfolio of seven
eight figure and multi eight figure companies across a variety of industries, photography, publishing,
fitness, business consulting, beauty, and business types, brick and mortar chains, software,
service, e-commerce, training and education. Our portfolio companies now do about $1.6 million
per week and growing. I say this because honestly, I can't believe it. All of this was because of a
girl who believed in me, a credit card, and a grand time offer. I know I teleported you from rag
to riches. And the natural question is, how? That's what I'm going to use the rest of this book
and the remaining books and free courses in acquisition.com to break down. The skill of making
offers save me from bankruptcy and likely save my life. I've made so many mistakes in my life.
I've made so many bad life decisions. I've hurt people knowingly and mistakenly. I've done bad
things with good intentions. I say this because I am human. I don't pretend to have the answers.
I have my own demons that I bought all every day. But despite my many shortcomings, I've still
managed to get really good at this one thing, and I'd like to share that with you. I can teach you how
to build great offers. I don't know who you are. Yes, you, the one listening to this.
But thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you for allowing me to do work. I find meaningful.
Thank you for giving me the most valuable asset you have, your attention. I promised to do my
very best to give you a positive return on it. Here's your first piece of good news. If you're
listening to this, then you already are in the top 10%. Most people buy stuff and then promptly
ignore it. I can also throw out a spoiler. The further you get in this book, the bigger the
nuggets become. Just watch this book delivers. The world needs more entrepreneurs and needs more
fighters. It needs more magic. And that's what I'm sharing with you magic.
Hey, guys, real quick. I don't know if you know this, but $100 million offers has a physical
copy and a Kindle copy online. So you can go to Amazon and grab those. If that's helpful for me,
I prefer to read with my eyes and listen at the same time. And especially the books that I
refer to often I like having on my desk next to me so I can pull them up and use them to make
money doing whatever it is that I'm doing. Chapter two. Grand Slam offers. Make people
an offer so good they would feel stupid saying no. Travis Jones. I was 23 years old and to quote
Ruth from Ozark, I didn't know shit about fuck. But there was in a Las Vegas penthouse rotel room
along with 10 business owners learning about marketing and sales in my most fashionable
beast mode t-shirt. A shirt I had gotten for free and one of the five shirts I owned at the time.
Truthfully, I was anxious, self-conscious, and thought I was making a huge mistake.
I paid $3,000 of money I didn't have to get a seat at the table.
I knew I needed to learn. Everyone there had a business except me. I was planning on starting one.
A gym. TJ, the organizer, had multiple successful businesses. While going over the agenda,
I remember he made an offhand comment about making a million dollars that year.
One million dollars. I was spelled out. I want to be like this guy. Do anything.
The problem was I didn't know what any of them were talking about. KPIs, CPLs, conversion rates.
My head was spinning as I pretended like I knew what they were talking about. But I didn't,
and I'm bad at pretending. Between sessions, TJ found me. He could tell I was way over my head.
TJ was kind, curious, and caring. After a little bit of small talk, he asked me a simple question
that changed my life forever. Do you want to know the secret to sales?
I had never sold anything in my life. I never even had a book on it. I just recently learned
what the term even meant seriously. I leaned forward and tended to download every sellable
that he spoke right into my brain. I opened my notebook and stared at him with intent.
I was ready for the secret. He looked at me soberly and said,
make people an offer so good they would feel stupid saying no. I nodded, wrote it down,
underlined it, and circled at it. And with that, my entire worldview of selling was transformed.
Make people an offer so good they would feel stupid saying no. My mind was racing.
I didn't have to be skilled or even any good. I just had to come up with things that anyone would
say yes to. The greatest game of my life had now begun. What this book is about. At some point,
every successful business owner was a entrepreneur, a person full of ideas and frustrated at having
potential despair. Something clicks when they realize the horrible trade day and so many people make
trading their freedom for falsely perceived security. They're discomfort compounds.
And once the discomfort of staying the same surpasses the discomfort of change, they take the leap.
I'm going to be an entrepreneur so I can be free. They tell themselves,
free to do whatever I want, whenever I want, with whom ever I want.
Some learned about entrepreneurship through personal development. Others got into it through
a franchise. Others bought courses. And some just said, fuck it. I'm doing it. And I'll make it
work and make it work they did. Most of us opened up shop with the intention of helping people in
some way. Many times, this assistance isn't some way related to something that's affected us
personally. We set out to give back by providing to others by helping them solve a problem that
was plagued us. Then again, sometimes this isn't our way in. In either case, we cling to the dream
of making more and being freer than we are now. Many of us thought naively that owning a business
would be our crowning accomplishment, a final destination. When in reality, it was just the beginning.
Somehow, in the transition between passionate to helping others and owning my first business,
we gradually realized that we don't even know the first thing about business, let alone turning a
profit. We may know a lot about our passion about why we started the business. That doesn't mean
we know anything about succeeding in business. Much to the disappointment of idealists on the
sidelines, succeeding in business means getting prospective customers to trade us money for our
services, our passion for their harder and coins. That's the agreement. The only way to
facilitate that exchange to transact to literally carry out business as a business is by making the
prospect an offer. What's an offer anyways? The only way to conduct a business is through a value
exchange, a trade of dollars for value. The offer is what initiates this trade. In a nutshell,
the offers the goods and services you agree to provide, how you accept payment, and the terms of
the agreement. It is what begins the process of getting customers and making money. It is the
first thing that any new customer will interact with in your business. Since the offer is what attracts
new customers, it is the lifeblood of your business. No offer, no business, no life, bad offer,
negative profit, no business, miserable life, decent offer, no profit, stagnating business, stagnating
life, good offer, some profit, okay business, okay life, grand slam offer, fantastic profit,
insane business, freedom. This book helps entrepreneurs craft those grand slam offers.
These are the offers that are so effective, profitable, and life-changing that it seems like
they can only be the result of luck. That's how it looks to an untrained eye anyway.
As you likely know now, I have crafted thousands of offers over the last decade. Most have failed,
some did okay, and some struck gold, but I never really knew why. As Dr. Bergoman, a famous
Stanford Business School professor said, it is far better to understand why you failed than to be
ignorant of why you succeeded. But as the data started rolling in, what seemed like luck and
fortune was closer to a repeatable framework. I've been fortunate enough to strike gold enough
times to document these frameworks and have gotten lightning to strike twice. I've put the steps
and components of those frameworks in a logical and digestible format, so they're actually useful
today, like now. I'm giving you action instead of a sad but typical book of vague business
theories and mental masturbation. The two main problems most entrepreneurs face and how this book
solves them. Although you can make a list of the problems you face a mile long, which is a great
way to stress yourself out. All these problems typically stem from the big two cajonus. One,
not enough clients. Two, not enough cash. In other words, excess profit at the end of the month.
Seems obvious, right? It costs more time and money to get clients thereby solving issue one,
and that money is coming from the profit margins, which create problem too.
What's more annoying? Prospects savagely compare and belittle our services in favor of cheaper
and crappier alternatives, with the cheapest one winning. This, of course, when winning means
getting to work for more or for even less, sad face. Let's see if slash prices to get more customers.
You may even have a full client look, but here you are, barely making it because profit margins
are too thin. Competition becomes a race to the bottom. If you're struggling with one or both of
these issues you're not alone, I've been there. Heck, I think every entrepreneur has these same
challenges. I also want you to know that it's not your fault. Typical models weren't designed
for profit maximization. They were designed by companies who have boatlets of funding and can operate
at a loss for years. When these models are used in the real world, business owners just barely
get by. They essentially buy themselves a job and work 100 hours a week to avoid working 40.
Happy trade. My guess is that if you're anything like me, you sign up for something better.
Keep an open mind. The contents of this book, if executed, can transform your business fast.
It's okay if you're not into money, numbers, or business models. I've done all that work for you.
I'm walking through the process step by step in these pages. I'm going to explain each of the
two big problems we touched on above in detail, including why they don't work. Then, I'm going
to show you the solutions. To wrap this adventure up, I'll explain how to enhance value to maximize
how much you make per customer so that you can outmarket everyone and set cash. We use this
all for model for every niche we work with. Kairos, dentists, gyms, agencies, plumbers,
roofers, dog walkers, physical products, software, brick and mortar stores, and so many more.
And it's amazing how fast things can improve with each and every one of them when they use this
framework. What's in it for you? I've made every dumb business stake in the book. Now, you
can learn from my embarrassing, brutal, multi-million dollar fucker apps without having to suffer
the same pain yourself. Building these businesses has been a very hard and emotional journey for me.
I wouldn't trade these experiences for the world. However, if this book helps just one entrepreneur
avoid suffering as I did, keep their business open, or accomplish their dreams, it will all be worth it.
If you're willing to exchange the time it takes to watch two episodes of your favorite TV show
and really study this book, and if you implement even a single offer component,
I can guarantee you will add more clients and more dollars to your bottom line.
Reading this book and taking it to heart will be the single greatest return on time for your
business. Nothing else will allow you to do what this book can do in the same amount of time.
That is a promise. As a side benefit, implementing a new offer is about one of the easiest things
to do in a business, so you really can do this. This isn't some management practice or culture
building who do. This is the real how you sell shit for lots of money, type stuff.
What's in it for me? I give all these materials this book, the accompanying course and all the
books and courses which you can find at acquisition.com for free or at cost in order to help as many
people as humanly possible make more and serve more. I've made these with the intention of providing
more value than you can get from a thousand dollar course, any thirty thousand dollar coaching program,
and hilariously more than two hundred thousand dollar college degree.
And I do this because although I could sell these materials in that format, I just don't want to.
I've made my money doing this stuff, not teaching how to do this stuff,
contrary to most of the marketing community at large. So my model is different. I'll explain more in a
second. That being said, there are two key archetypes I am trying to provide value to with my
published materials. For arch type number one, entrepreneurs under three million dollars per year
in revenue, my goal is to help you get there and earn your trust. Try just a couple of taxes from
this book, watch them work and try a few more, watch them work and so on. The more you see results
in your own business, the better. Once you succeed, you'll become arch type number two. Entrepreneurs
at minimum between three to ten million a year in revenue. Once you get there or if that's you
now, I'd be honored to invest in your business and help you cross thirty, fifty, or even a hundred
million plus. I don't sell coaching masterminds or courses or anything like that. Instead, I have
a portfolio of companies I take equity interest in. I use the infrastructure resources in teams of
all my companies to fast track their growth, but don't believe me yet. We just met. If you're curious,
my business model is simple, just like the four piece pyramid logo of acquisition.com.
Step one, provide value at no cost, foreign access to what the rest of the marketplace charges for.
Step two, have entrepreneurs use the materials that actually work and make money helping more folks.
Step three, earn the trust of the hyper-executor business owners who use the frameworks to scale
their businesses to three to ten million dollars per year and beyond. Step four, invest in
those businesses to make more impact at scale while helping every single other entrepreneur for free.
If you look carefully, the process refers to engineer's success. I think it's pretty cool.
Here's how. I know these business owners can execute the frameworks I have without
handling, and therefore would be very likely to succeed with the next set of frameworks.
Getting to thirty million, fifty million, hundred million, looks different than getting
to three to ten million. They know my style works for them because it already has. So we operate
on shared trust. I trust they can execute and they trust that our stuff works again because it
already has. All while helping everyone else vote for it. So it allows me to preemptively
avoid failures and dramatically increase success like the hood. Let me show you how much.
At the time of this writing, every business I have started since March of 2017 has achieved a
$1.5 million per month run rate, at least. According to the Small Business Administration,
the odds of a single business even achieving $10 million a year or $833,000 per month,
which is almost half of what I just said, are 0.4% or one in two hundred and fifty.
Having it happen four times in a row is 0.4% times 0.4% times 0.4% times 0.4%.
Or in other words, very, very, very low probability that it was luck.
As such, I can say with conviction that we know how to recreate success using the frameworks I share
over and over again. They work because they are timeless business principles.
I actively visualize every day how it felt to wake up in the middle of the night in cold sweats,
wondering how it would make payroll. That gut-wrenching meditation keeps me hungry as an entrepreneur,
but also grateful for my security and peace of mind. I want the latter for you and anyone else who
gives a damn about what they do. Fair enough? Cool, so let's get to it. Basic outline of this book.
This book is intended to be a resource. As a resource, I mean, it will be something that you read
through, then keeping your toolbox coming back to it again and again.
It says, never memorize anything you can look up. Business is not a spectator sport.
You're not climbing for some midterm, and you're not some lymph-rested philosopher. You do work,
and to work, you need tools. This, my friend, is one of those tools.
General outline. Section 1. How we got here. You just finished it. Section 2. Pricing. How to charge
lots of money for stuff. Section 3. Value. Create your offer. How to make something so good.
People line up to buy. Section 4. Enhancing your offer. How to make your offer so good,
they feel stupid saying no. Section 5. Next steps. How to make this happen in the
World War? For free courses and books, so good, they grow your business without your consent.
Go to acquisition.com.
Hey guys, real quick. Hope you enjoyed the first five chapters of 100 million dollar offers.
If you didn't know this, we actually have a full course for 100 million dollar offers that
accompanies the book that is absolutely free. It's on my site at acquisition.com for
slash training. We have other courses there for free as well. There's no opt-in required.
You can just go there, watch, enjoy it. We've got downloads and checklists that you can use
so you can fix your offer, improve your offer, and ultimately make more money.
And next episode, episode 2, we're going to be talking about pricing and the commodity problem.
We're going to talk about how to find a starving crowd and how to charge what it's worth.
Acquisition.com Volume 1. 100 million dollar offers. How to make offers so good,
people feel stupid saying no. Written and performed by Alex Ramose. Copyright 2021.
Acquisition.com Audio Production Copyright 2021. Acquisition.com
Hey guys, this is another special edition collaboration between the game podcast and
$100 million offers. Today we're going to break down the pricing and commodity problem. This is the
number one issue that most businesses have and why they can't make enough profit. The starving
crowd problem, which is that they're selling to people who don't have enough pain, who are hard
to find, who are in markets that are not growing and there's an easy fix for that and I'll walk
you through the process. And the third chapter we'll go over today is charge what it's worth.
All right, this is probably one of the biggest unlocks for the majority of people who have
listened to the book in the many messages and reviews that I have read of it. These upcoming
chapters are heavy hitting and I hope you enjoy them. Section two, pricing. How to charge lots of
money for stuff. Chapter three, pricing, the commodity problem. Think different. Steve Jobs.
Gore or Die is a core tenant at our companies. We believe every person, every company,
and every organism is either growing or dying. Maintenance is a myth. What this means is,
if your company isn't growing, it's dying. This is sobering reality for many of us.
I learned the hard way and my business suffered for a long time because of it. Let me explain.
The market is continuously growing. The stock market grows at 9% per year. If we aren't growing at
9% per year, we are falling behind. Maintenance in the most generic sense would be 9% per year growth
year over year. Furthermore, if you're in a growing marketplace, then you might have to grow at 20% to
30% per year just to keep up or risk falling behind. So you can see how maintenance is a myth.
So then what does it take to grow? Thankfully, just three simple things. One, get more customers.
Two, increase their average purchase value. Three, get them to buy more times. That's it. Sure,
there are lots of ways to acquire customers and zillions of ways to increase order value and
purchase frequency. But simply put, that's it. Those are the only three ways to grow. Example,
if I sell 10 clients a month and a client is worth a thousand dollars to me over their lifetime
through average cart value times number of average purchases, then my business will cap at 10,000
dollars per month, aka 10 times 1000 dollars. 10 new clients per month times 1000 dollars
lifetime value equals 10,000 dollars per month in max revenue. If you want to grow,
you've either got to sell more clients every month while maintaining suitable margins or have
them be worth more by increasing the profit per purchase or number of times they buy. That's it.
Author note, only two ways to grow. To simplify this concept even more, they're really only two ways
to grow. Get more customers and increase each customer's value. Increasing each customer's value
has two sub-buckets. One, increasing profit per purchase. Two, increasing the number of times they buy.
For the purpose of this book, I highlight both of those sub-buckets as individual growth path.
I did this because I think it will be easier to understand the money models that will come in volume
three. All three, getting more customers, increasing their average purchase value and getting
them to buy more are repeated themes in this book. But if you seek simplicity, both increasing
average purchase value and increasing the number of times the customer buys results in one outcome,
increasing each customer's value. Business terms, before going any further and to better flesh out
the concepts that will follow, we should take a second to define and better understand some
key business concepts. When I stood in that Las Vegas penthouse in my beast mode t-shirt,
I was clueless about such terms. Let me help you be better than, well, me. Gross Profit.
The revenue minus the direct cost of servicing an additional customer. If I sell lotion for $10
and it costs me $2, my gross profit is $8 or 80%. If I sell agency services for $1,000 per month
and it costs me $100 per month in labor to run that client's advertising, then my gross profit is
$900 or 90%. Note, this is not net profit. Net profit is what's left over after all expenses are paid,
not just the direct cost of fulfillment. Lifetime value. The gross profit accrued over the entire
lifetime of a customer. This is gross profit multiplied by the number of purchases an average
customer will make over their lifetime. Using the example above, if the average customer stays 5
months and they pay $1,000 per month while it costs me $100 per month to fulfill, then their
lifetime value is $4,500. Here's the breakdown. Revenue equals $1,000 per month times 90% gross
margins times 5 months equals $4,500 lifetime value or LTV. Note that the indirect costs like
admin, software, rent, etc are not included in LTV. Note, you will find different definitions for
lifetime value depending on the source. The biggest difference is that some sources only count
total revenue, while others focus on gross profit over the lifespan. I focus on gross profit.
You may also see me refer to this as LTGP, where lifetime gross profit in other texts, just for clarity
sake. Value driven versus price driven purchases. This book was intended to be a textbook for any
business that wants to grow. I spend and continue to spend hundreds of hours on calls and in-person
meetings consulting entrepreneurs on crafting their offers. I've seen the ones that take off into
the stratosphere and those that fizzle. Having a grand slam offer makes it almost impossible to lose,
but why? What gives it such an impact? In short, having a grand slam offer helps with all three
of the requirements for growth. Getting more customers, getting them to pay more, and getting
them to do some more times. How? You ask. It allows you to differentiate yourself from the marketplace.
In other words, it allows you to sell your product based on value, not on price. Commoditized
equals price driven purchases, aka a race to the bottom. Differentiated equals a value driven
purchase, aka selling a category of one with no comparison. Yes, market matters, which I'll
expand on in the next chapter. Commodity, as I define it, is a product available for many places.
For that reason, its prone to purchases based on price instead of value. If all products are equal,
then the cheapest one is the most valuable by default. In other words, if a prospect compares your
product to another and thinks these are pretty much the same, I'll buy the cheaper one. Then they
commoditized you. How embarrassing. But really, it's one of the worst experiences a value driven
entrepreneur can have. This is a massive problem for the entrepreneur because commodities are valued
at the point of market efficiency. This means that the marketplace drives the price point down
through competition until the margins are just enough to keep the lights on, just enough to become
a slave to their business. The business makes just enough to justify the owner waiting anxiously
for things to turn around. And by the time that lie is realized, they're in too deep to pivot,
at least until now. A grand slam offer solves this problem. But what does a grand slam offer do?
All right, let's start by defining a grand slam offer. It's an offer you present to the marketplace
that cannot be compared to any other product or service available, combining an attractive promotion,
an unmatchable value proposition, a premium price, and an unbeatable guarantee with a money model,
aka payment terms, that allows you to get paid to get new customers forever removing the cash
constraint on business growth. In other words, it allows you to sell in a category of one,
or to apply another great phrase to sell in a vacuum. The resulting purchasing decision for
the prospect is now between your product and nothing. So you can sell whatever price you get
the prospect to perceive, not in comparison to anything else. As a result, it gets you more customers
at higher ticket prices for less money. If you like fancy marketing terms, it breaks down to this.
One, increased response rates, think clicks, two increased conversions, think sales,
three premium prices, think charging a lot of money.
Having a grand slam offer increases your response rates to advertisements, aka more people will
click or take action on an advertisement they see containing a grand slam offer. If you pay
the same amount for eyeballs, but one, more people respond, two, more of those responses buy,
and three, they buy for higher prices, your business grows. I've struck gold on my fair share
of offers, not because I've got some superpower, but because I've just done this a lot of times
and failed even more. I've sorted through the crap that chronically fails and pocketed all the stuff
that reproducibly succeeds and put it into this book. Here's the key takeaway from all this.
A business does the same work in both cases with a commoditized offer or a grand slam offer
that the filmen is the same, but if one business uses a grand slam offer and another uses a commodity
offer, the grand slam offer makes that business appear as if it had a totally different product,
and that means a value driven versus price driven purchase. If you have a commodity offer,
you will compete on price, having a price driven purchase versus a value driven purchase.
Your grand slam offer, however, forces a prospect to stop and think differently to assess
the value of your differentiated product. Doing this establishes you as your own category,
which means it's too difficult to compare prices, which means you recalibrate the prospect's
value meter. Real life grand slam offer money math before and after. Quick backstory. One of our
companies is a software that advertising agencies use to work leads for their customers. Using
the software, agencies transform their offer from a commoditized offer of lead generation services
to a grand slam offer of pay for performance. Let me show you the multiplicative effect it has
on revenue for business. While rounded for illustration sake, the values I will share with you
are based on real numbers, a lead generation agency selling services to brick and mortar businesses
experience. Old commoditized way, price driven, race to the bottom, commoditized offer,
a thousand dollars down, then a thousand dollars per month retainer for agency services.
I will read through the chart that is displayed.
Advertising spend $10,000, impressions reach $300,000, response rate 0.0013,
appointments booked, 40, show rate 75%, appointment showed, 30, closing percentage,
16%, appointments closed, five, price, $1,000 total, $5,000,
row-as, or return on advertising spend, 0.5 to one. Here's the breakdown. At 0.5 to one
return on advertising spend, you lose money getting customers. But in 30 days, those five customers
will pay another $1,000 each, bringing you $10,000 total and breaking even. The next month,
the $5,000 that comes in will be your first profitable month. And each month thereafter will be
profitable, assuming they all stay. This is an example of a commoditized service,
normal agency work. There's a million of them and they all look the same. Commoditized businesses
and offers have a harder time getting responses from ads because all their marketing looks the same
as everyone else's. Note, it all looks the same because they're all making the same offer.
You pay us to work, we do work, maybe you get results from that work, maybe you don't.
It's reasonable, but easily duplicated and subject to commoditization. This commodization
creates a price driven purchase. You were forced to be priced competitively to get clients
and to stay that way to keep them. If the client sees a cheaper version of the same thing,
then the value discovery will cause them to swap providers. This is a dilemma.
Lose this client, the rest of your clients, and potential clients, or stay competitive.
Your margins become so thin, they vanish. Furthermore, it's hard to get prospects to say yes and
keep them saying less, unless you're hyper-vigilant about clients commoditizing your business by staying
again competitive. And that's the problem with the old commoditized way. They're able to compare.
Unless you switch to a grand slam offer, your prices will keep getting beat down.
The business eventually dies or the entrepreneur throws in the towel. No bueno.
We want to make an offer that's so different that you can skip the awkward explanation
of why your product's different from everyone else's, which, if they have to ask,
then they are probably too ignorant to understand the explanation anyways. And instead,
just have the offer do that work for you. That's the grand slam offer away.
Let's dive in to see the contrast in sales numbers.
New grand slam offer away. Differentiated, incomparable value driven.
Grand slam offer. Pay one time, no recurring fee, no retainer. Just cover the ad spend.
I'll generate the leads and work your leads for you. And only pay me if people show up.
And I'll guarantee you 20 people in your first month or you get your next month free.
I'll also provide all the best practices from all their businesses just like yours.
Daily sales coaching for your staff, tested scripts, tested price points, and offers to swipe
into ploy, sales recordings, and everything else you need to sell and fulfill your customers.
I'll give you the entire playbook for insert industry, absolutely free, just for becoming a client.
So in a nutshell, I'm feeding people into your business showing you exactly how to sell them so
that you get the highest prices, which means that you make the most money possible. Sound fair enough?
It's clear that these are drastically different offers. But so what? Where's the money?
Let's compare both in the chart below. Advertising spend $10,000, same as before. Impressions reached
$300,000, same as before. Response rate. 0.0033. 2.5 times the response rate because you have
a more appealing offer, so more people respond. Appointments booked. 40 becomes 100.
Show rate. 75% stays the same. Appointing showed. 30 goes to 75, and that's just a result of
numbers flowing down the funnel. Closing percentage goes from 16% to 37%. 2.3 times the closing,
because there's more value, some more people buy. Appointment is closed. It goes from 5 to 28,
that's just a result of the higher closing percentage. Price goes from $1,000 to $39.97,
which is four times the price because we're charging one time V versus recurring.
The total collected upfront goes from $5,000 to $112,000. That's 22.4 times the cash upfront collected.
And the row as goes from 0.5 to 1 to 11.2 to 1, which means you're getting paid to get new customers.
Breakdown. You spend the same amount of money out for the same eyeballs, then you get 2.5 times more
people to respond to your advertisement because it's a more compelling offer. From there, you close 2.5
times as many people because they offer so much more compelling. From there, you're able to charge
four times higher prices upfront. The end result is 2.5 times 2.5 times 4 equals 22.4 times more
cash collected upfront. Yes, you just spent $10,000 to make $112,000. You just made money
getting new customers. Comparison. Remember the old way? The way you lost half the ads meant
upfront. With the new way, you're making more money and getting more customers. This means that
your cost to acquire a customer is so cheap relative to how much you make that your limiting
factor becomes your ability to do the work you already love doing. Cash flow and acquire
customers is no longer your bottleneck because it's 22.4 times more profitable than the old model.
Yep, you read that right. This is the part in the action movie where you walk away from
an explosion and slow motion. This is the exact grand slam offer we used with our software
business that serves agencies. The numbers can become wild fast. I know. 22.4x better sounds
unreasonable, but that's the point. If you play the same game everyone else does,
you'll get the same results everyone else does. Mediocre. You hit singles and doubles,
keep the lights on, but never go ahead. Or remember, the opening passage of this book,
that when you align all the pieces, you can nod it out of the park so well that you win for good.
In my first 18 months in business, we went from $500,000 a year to $28 million a year off of less
than $1 million an ad spent. So when I say 20 to 1, 50 to 1, 100 to 100 to 100 returns,
I mean it. When you get this right, the results are well, unbelievable.
Summary points. This chapter illustrated the basic problem with commoditization in how grand slam
offer solves that. This gets you out of the pricing war and into a category of one.
The next chapter will focus on finding the correct market to apply our pricing strategies to.
It's one of the most important things to get right. A grand slam offer given to the wrong
audience will fall on deaf ears. We want to avoid that at all costs. We must detour from pricing
for a moment to learn what to look for in a market. It's an essential box to check before continuing
on our journey. Free gift number one. Bonus tutorial. Start here. If you want a deeper dive,
go to acquisition.com for its less training for its less offers and watch the first video in the
free course starring yours truly about how I differentiate offers in businesses I can solve with
and get them charging premium prices. I also created some free SOPs and cheat codes that you can
download for free so you can implement faster. Enjoy.
Pricing. Chapter 4. Finding the right market. A starving crowd. The seed that fell on good soil
represents those who truly hear and understand God's word and produce a harvest of 30, 60,
or even 100 times as much as has been planet. Matthew 1323 and LT. A marketing professor asked
his students if you were going to open up a hot dog stand and you could only have one advantage
over your competitors, which would it be? Location. Quality. Low prices. Best taste. The
students kept going until eventually they had run out of answers. They looked at each other waiting
for the professor to speak. The room finally fell quiet. The professor smiled and replied,
a starving crowd. You could have the worst hot dogs, terrible prices, and be in a terrible location,
but if you're the only hot dog stand in town and the local college football game breaks out,
you're going to sell out. That's the value of a starving crowd. At the end of the day,
if there's a ton of demand for a solution, you can be mediocre at business, have a terrible offer,
and have no ability to persuade people, and you can still make money. An example of this was
the toilet paper shortage at the beginning of COVID-19. There was no offer, the pricing was a
treasures, and there was no compelling sales pitch. But because the crowd was so big and so starving,
rolls of toilet paper were going for $100 or more. That's the value of a starving crowd.
Selling newspapers. A good friend of mine, Lloyd, owned a software business that served newspapers
for almost a decade. They set up digital ad services on newspaper websites with a few clicks and
instantly helped them sell a whole new ad product. He only charged them a percentage of revenue he
added, so if they made nothing, neither did he. It was pure gain for the papers and a great offer.
But despite having a great offer and natural sales ability, his business began to decline.
Being a high achieving entrepreneur, he tried all different angles to solve the problem,
but nothing worked. He couldn't figure out what the issue was. It was hard for me to see him struggle
with this because I think Lloyd is much smarter than I am. And the answer seemed obvious to me,
but watching him go through this has been a lesson that I have taken with me for life.
Before I reveal it, what do you think the problem was? Product, offer, marketing and sales, his team?
Let's break it down. It wasn't his product. That was great. It wasn't his offer.
He had a zero risk rev share model. It wasn't his sales skills. He was a natural salesman.
So then, what was the problem? He was selling to newspapers. His market was shrinking by 25%
every single year. He had looked at all the angles except for the most obvious one. Finally,
after he used a fighting and uphill battle in his market, he realized his market was the source
of his problems and decided to downsize his company. Don't worry. The story has a second half.
To illustrate the power of a market, as soon as COVID hit, Lloyd pivoted. He started an automated
mask manufacturing company. With new technology, you brought the cost per mass down below
when people could buy them from from China. Within five months, he was doing millions per month.
Same much winner, different market. He applied his same skillset to a business he had zero experience
in and was able to win. That's the power of picking the right market.
I give you that story as a cautionary tale. Your market matters. Lloyd is a very smart human.
He's obviously very capable, but we can all be blinded as entrepreneurs because we don't like to
give up. We are so accustomed to solving possible problems that we will keep ramming our heads into
the wall. We hate quitting. But the reality is that everyone is affected by their market.
So how do you pick the right market? What to look for? There is a market in desperate
need of your abilities. You need to find it. And when you do, you will capitalize all while wondering
what took you so long. Don't be romantic by your audience. Serve the people who can pay you what
you're worth. And remember that picking a market like anything is always our choice. So choose wisely.
In order to sell anything you need demand, we're not trying to create demand. We're trying to
channel it. That is a very important distinction. If you don't have a market for your offer,
nothing that follows will work. This entire book sits atop the assumption that you have at least
a quote normal market, which I define as a market that is growing at the same rate as the marketplace.
And that has common unmet needs that fall into one of three categories, improved health,
increased wealth or improved relationships. For example, Lloyd could have gone through this
entire book and nothing in here would have worked for him. Why? Because he would be targeting
newspapers, a dying market. That being said, having a great market is an advantage.
But you can be in a normal market that's growing at an average rate and still make crazy money.
Every market I've been in has been a normal market. You just don't actually want to be selling
ice to ask him. Here are the basic tenets of what I look for in markets. Let's run them before
we return to the offer. When picking markets, I look for four indicators. One, pain, two,
purchasing power, three, easy to target, four, growing. One, massive pain. They must not want
but desperately need what I am offering. Pain can be anything that frustrates people about their
lives. Being broke is painful. A bad marriage is painful. Waiting in line at the grocery store
is painful. Back pain, ugly smile, pain, overweight pain, humans suffer a lot. So for us entrepreneurs
endless opportunity abounds. The degree of pain will be proportional to the price you will be
able to charge more on this in the value equation chapter. When they hear the solution to their pain
and inversely what their life would look like without this pain, they should be drawn to your
solution. I've been saying that I use to train sales teams. The pain is the pitch. If you can
articulate the pain and prospect is feeling accurately, they will almost always buy what you are
offering. A prospect must have a painful problem for us to solve and charge money for our solution.
Pro tip. The point of good writing is for the reader to understand. The point of good persuasion
is for the prospect to feel understood. Two, purchasing power. A friend of mine had a very good
system for helping people improve their resumes to get more job interviews. He was great at it.
But try as he did, you could not get people to pay for his services. Why? Because they were all
unemployed. This again may seem obvious, but he thought these people are easy to target. They're
in massive pain. There are plenty of them and it's constantly adding new people. This is a great
market. He just forgot a crucial point. Your audience needs to be able to afford the service you're
charging them for. Make sure your targets have the money or access to the amount of money needed
to buy your services at the prices you require to make it worth your time. Three, easy to target.
Let's say you have a perfect market, but no way of finding the people who comprise it.
Well, making a grand slam offer will be difficult. I make my life easier by looking for easy
to target markets. Examples of this are avatars that have associations they belong to,
mailing lists, social media groups, channels they all watch, etc.
If our potential customers are gathered together somewhere, then we can market to them.
If searching them out, however, is like finding needles in a haystack, then it can be very
difficult to get your offer in front of any potentially interested eyes. This point is tactical.
It is reality, not theoretical. For instance, you may want to serve rich doctors,
but if your ads are being displayed to nursing students, your offer will fall on deaf ears,
no matter how good it is. Main point. You want to make sure you can target your ideal audience easily.
Lairifying point. There's no issue wanting to serve rich doctors. They are easy to find.
This is just illustrative that your promotions must be served to the right audience.
4. Growing. Growing markets are like a tailwind. They make everything move forward faster.
The climbing markets are like headwinds. They make all efforts harder. This was Lloyd's example.
Newspapers had three of four makings of a great market. Lots of pain, purchasing power,
easy to target. But they were shrinking. Fast. No matter how hard he tried, the entire marketplace
was fighting against him. Business is hard enough and markets move quickly. So you might as well
find a good market to give you a tailwind to make the process easier. Making this real.
Health. Wealth. Relationships. There are three main markets that will always exist.
Health, wealth, and relationships. The reason that those will always exist is that there will always
be tremendous pain when you lack them. There is always demand for solutions to these core human
pains. The goal is to find a smaller subgroup within those larger buckets that is growing,
has the buying power, and is easy to target. The other three variables. So if I were a
relationship expert trying to find my avatar, I'd rather focus on second half of life relationship
coaching for old timers than helping college students in relationships. Why? Because senior citizens
who are alone are likely suffering more pain as they are near their deaths, have more buying
power, money, and are easy to find targeting. Lastly, at the time of this riding, there are more
people turning 65 each year than turning 20. AKA growing. That is the idea. Think about what you
were good at in regards to health, wealth, and relationships. Then think about who might value
your service the most. AKA is in the most pain, has the buying power to pay what you want,
money, and can be found easily targeting. As long as those three criteria are strong,
and the market isn't shrinking, you'll be in good shape. But how important your success is finding
a quote, great market versus a quote, normal market versus a quote, bad market. The answer,
it actually depends. Let me explain. Order of importance. Three levers on success. It's unlikely
you're going to be in a dying market like the newspaper example. It's also unlikely you're going
to be selling toilet paper and COVID, a buying frenzy. You'll likely be in a normal market,
and that's totally okay. There's a fortune to be made within normal markets. My single point here
is that you can't be in a bad market or nothing will work. That being said, here's the simplest
illustration of the order of importance between markets offers and persuasion skills.
Starving crowd is more important than your offer strength, which is more important than your
persuasion skills. Let's say you were to rate these elements on a scale of great, normal, and bad.
You could essentially move down the line from left to right in order of importance.
A quote, great rating on a higher order piece overpowers anything else lower on the priority
scale. A quote, normal rating moves the buck to the next part of the equation. A quote, bad stops
the equation unless a grade from a higher order component nullifies it. Here are a few examples.
Example one, even if you had a bad offer and are bad at persuasion, you're going to make money
if you're in a great market. If you're on the corner, hocking hot dogs when the bar closes
up at 2am with mobs of starving drunk folks, you're going to sell out of your hot dogs. Example two,
most of us, if you were in a normal market and have a grand slam offer, you can make tons of money
even if you're bad at persuasion. This is most people reading this book. That's why I wrote it.
To help you maximize your success by learning to really build a grand slam offer.
Example three, let's say you're in a normal market and have a normal offer. In order to be
massively successful, you would have to be exceptionally good at persuasion. Then and only then
would you succeed with your persuasive skills serving as the full-crumb for your success. Heck,
many empires have been built by exceptional persuaders. It's just the hardest path to follow
and requires the most effort in learning. Nailing your offer helps you shortcut this path to success.
Otherwise, you will just have a normal business that takes exceptional skill to be successful.
Nothing wrong with that. We're probably not what you signed up for.
Commit to the niche. I have a saying when coaching entrepreneurs on picking their target market.
Don't make me niche lap you. Too often, a new entrepreneur half-heartedly tries one offer in one
market, doesn't make a million dollars, then mistakenly thinks this is a bad market. Most time
that's not actually the case. They just haven't found a grand slam offer yet to apply to that
market. They think I'll switch from helping Dennis to helping chiropractors. That's it. When in
reality, both of those are normal markets and represent billions of dollars of revenue. Either
would work. Just not both. You must pick one. No one can serve two masters. I have coined the
term niche slap to remind entrepreneurs in my communities to commit once they pick. All businesses
and all markets have unpleasant characteristics. The grass is never greener once you get to the other
side. If you keep hopping from niche to niche, hoping that the market will solve your problems,
you deserve to be niche slapped. You must stick with whatever you pick long enough to have trial
and error. You will fail. In fact, you will fail until you succeed. But you will fail far longer
if you keep changing who you market to because you must start over from the beginning each time.
So pick, then commit. Riches earn the niches. The other reason to commit to the niche is because
of how much more you will make. Simply put, niching down will make you far more money.
Author note. Went to broadened. Advice for most people. For most, if you were under $10 million
per year, niching down will make you more money. After that, it will depend on how narrow the
niches or what is called tam, total addressable market. A business can only grow to meet the total
addressable market. That being said, for most people, getting to 10 million per year is already a
.4% achievement. Only one in 250 businesses achieve this. So for 99.6% of readers below
$10 million per year, it's almost always easier to serve fewer clients more narrowly.
But if you want to go beyond that, you may, depending on the size of your tam,
have to broaden your audience by going up market. Down market, or into an adjacent market,
where your existing services can provide value. For context, many companies expanded to $30 million
plus per year, serving a single niche. Carp actors, gyms, plumbers, solar, roofers, salon owners,
etc. If you were at $1 million or $3 million per year, thinking you have capped and must expand,
you are wrong. You just need to be better. When I truly grasped how much more profit I was leaving
on the table, it changed my life. It was what took me from doing acquisition for anyone,
to teaching it to a specific avatar. In my instance, I decided on a micrgemoner, with 100 members,
assigned lease, at least one employee, and wanted to help clients lose weight.
That's pretty specific compared to, quote, small business owners, or, my favorite,
quote, anyone who will pay me, which is common. And I was very specific. In that business,
gym launch, we turned down and still do anyone who is not the avatar. That means no personal
trainers, no online coaches, etc. Could I have helped them? Of course I could have. I mean, heck,
the majority of our portfolios comprised of non-Jim companies. But in order to maintain
product focus and high converting messaging, knowing exactly who the product was for was a game
changer. It helped us know exactly who we were speaking to at all times and exactly whose problems
we were solving, but simplicity and ease may not be enough to sway you. So let me illustrate why
honing in on one niche will make you more money. Reason. You can literally charge 100 times more for
the exact same product. Dan Kennedy was the first person to illustrate this for me, and I will do
my best to pass on the torch to you in these pages. Knitching product pricing example,
product, and then price. Time management product price $19. Time management for sales professionals
price $99. Time management for outbound B2B sales price $499. Time management for outbound B2B
power tools and gardening sales reps price $1,997. Dan Kennedy taught me this and it changed my
life forever. Let's say you sold a generic course on time management. Unless you were some massive
time management guru with a compelling or unique story, it would be unlikely it would turn into
anything significant. What do you think, quote yet another, and quote time management course is
valued $19.29. Sure, nothing right home about. Let's just say $19 for illustration sick.
Now we shall unleash the power of niche pricing in various stages on your product.
So let's imagine you make the product more specific, keeping the same principles and call it
time management for sales professionals. All of a sudden, this course is for a more specific type
of person. We could tie their increase to even one more sale or one more deal and it would be worth
more. But there are a lot of sales people, so this might be a $99 product. Knee, but we can do
better. So let's go down another level of niching and call our product time management for B2B
outbound sales reps following the same principles of specificity. Now we know our sales people
probably have very experienced deals and commissions. A single deal would easily net this salesman
$500 or more. So it would be easy to justify $4.99 price tag. This is already a 25X increase in
price for almost an identical product. I could stop here, but I'm going one step further.
Let's just niche down one last level. Time management for B2B outbound power tools and
gardening sales reps. Boom. Think about it for a second. If you were a power tools outbound sales
rep, you would think to yourself, this is made exactly for me. And what happily fork over maybe
$1,000 or $2,000 for a time management program that could help you achieve your goal. The actual
pieces of the program may be the same as the generic $19 course. But since they have been applied
and the sales messaging could speak so much to this avatar, they will find it far more compelling
and get more value from it in a real way. This concept applies to anything you decide to do.
You want to be the guy who services this type of person or solves this type of problem. Any
even more niched, I solve this type of problem for this specific type of person in this unique
counterintuitive way that reverses their deepest fear. That's why a fitness program for generic
weight loss might be priced only at $19 while fitness program design and marketed only to
shift nurses might be priced at $1,997. Even though the core of the program is likely similar,
eat less, move more. And result. The market matters. Your niche matters. And if you can sell the same
product for a hundred times the price, should you? I'll let you decide. Summary points.
The purpose of this chapter is to reinforce two things. First, don't pick bad markets.
Normal markets are fine. Great markets are great. Second, once you pick, commit until you figure it
out. If you try 100 offers, I promise you will succeed. Most people never try anything. Others
fail once, then give up. It takes resilience to succeed. Stop personalizing. It's not about you.
If your offer doesn't work, it doesn't mean you suck. It means your offer sucks. Big difference.
You only suck if you stop trying. So try again. You'll never become more class if you stop after
a failed attempt. If you find a crazy good market, ride it and ride it hard. If you pay
a grand slam offer with a crazy market, you'll likely never need to work again. Seriously.
So have this skill set, the ability to accurately assess markets by taking into account
pain, money, targeting, and growth in your back pocket so that when lightning strikes,
you can make sure it strikes twice. Having established how to nail a market, let's get
back to pricing. The first step to making crazy money is charging premium prices.
Free gift number two, bonus tutorial, winning markets. If you want to know more about how I
pick markets and find niches that are profitable, go to acquisition.com forward slash training,
forward slash offers. Then watch winning markets for a short video tutorial. I've also included
a free checklist to see how your market or niche measures up. It's absolutely free. Enjoy.
Hey guys, hope you guys are enjoying the $100 million offers collaboration episode with the
game. You may not know this, but we have a physical copy available on Amazon and a Kindle
version. And if you're like me, I get a pretty ADD really easily. And I prefer to consume in
multiple formats at the same time. You remember it longer. It gets stored multiple places in your
brain, lots of science stuff. But either way, it ultimately helps you retain it and use it. So
if that's useful, use it. If not, keep enjoying.
Chapter five pricing. Charge what it's worth.
Charge is higher price as you can say out loud without cracking a smile.
Dan Kennedy.
January 2019. All I could see was black. My eyes felt glued shut.
I was awake, but the fatigue in my temples felt like a five pound weight was duct taped to my
skull, dragging my eyelids back down. I had to concentrate forcibly to open them.
The details of the dimly lit room beamed in. I rolled over to the edge of the hotel room bed,
feeling each and every muscle on my body as my weight shifted.
Hunched on my side, I could see my clothes scattered on the floor.
I was so beat the night before that I didn't even remember taking them off.
I had just finished a five day gauntlet of keynote after keynote presentation.
Two days of presentations for a high level clients, immediately followed by spending
two days planning with our entire company, 135 plus employees.
I had missed a face-time call from my father that day before. I didn't have anything on my
agenda for the morning, so I crickly got up, slid into a hoodie, and some sweats,
and walked into the hallway to call him back.
After the initial pleasantries, he immediately dove into why he was calling,
parental concern. I saw the picture you posted of all your clients,
he said, but in an unusually concerned tone. I thought the event was for all your highest
paying clients. I didn't know it was a big event. It looked like you had a thousand people there.
Alone in the hallway and struggling to shake the heavy weight of exhaustion still,
I tried to gauge where his concern was coming from and what he was getting at.
I'd explained this to him already. It was only for our highest level clients.
That wasn't all of our clients, I said. Just the ones who pay 42,000 year are gym lords,
like I told you. Every single person in that picture paid you 42,000 dollars. He sounded almost
frightened at the idea. Yeah, wild, right? My voice was hoarse from days of speaking and thousands
of 20 second conversations. Is it legal what you're doing? Yes. Wow. That escalated quickly.
I thought to myself, do they know you're paying you that much? Yes, it's legal. And of course,
they know it's not like a magically siphoning money. That's a lot of money. I hope what you're
giving them is worth it. I contemplated whether it was worth the effort to dive into this or just
ignore it. But knowing this was going to be a thing, I took a deep breath and began to explain.
If I made you $239,000 extra this year, would you pay me 42,000 dollars? I asked using 239,000
because it was the average increase in top line revenue of a gym using our system for 11 months.
For sure, he said, I mean, if I knew I was going to make that back, but what would I have to do?
About 15 hours a week of work. And how long would it take me to make the $239,000?
11 months. And how much of the $42,000 would I have to pay you up front?
Nothing. Just pay me as you start making money using the system. I watched it click.
My dad got it. Oh, he said, well, then yeah, I would do it. And that's why they do it too.
Making shit loads of money breaks people's minds. It literally stretches their minds so far
past what they can believe is possible. They assume you're doing something wrong or illegal.
They literally can't even. Why? Because they think to themselves, they can't be that much smarter
than me or work that much harder than me. So how's it possible for them to make a thousand times
more than me? Enough money that it would literally take 10 lifetimes for me to make what they make
in a year. In the three years leading up to me writing this book, I took home over $1.2 million
per month in profit every single month. That's more than the compensation for the CEO's of Ford,
McDonald's, Motorola, Yahoo, combined every year as a kid in his 20s. It angers those who
believe that life is unfair. It confuses others who cannot comprehend and believe that there
must have been a mistake. It inspires to select few who are bound for greatness. I hope that you
were in the last category because that is who I am writing this for. You can do this. You just
need to learn how and I'm going to show you price to value discrepancy. Quote, I hope what you're
giving them is worth it, end quote. Those words would probably sting for most, but when my dad
said them to me, I just knew he didn't understand the value we were providing. What I want to show you
is how to create and communicate value, aka the worthiness of an offer. In order to understand how
to make a compelling offer, you must understand value. The reason people buy anything is to get a deal.
They believe that what they are getting value is worth more than what they are given in exchange for
price. The moment the value they receive dips below what they are paying, they stop buying from you.
This price to value discrepancy is what you need to avoid at all costs. After all,
as Warren Buffett said, price is what you pay, values what you get.
The simplest way to increase the gap between price to value is by lowering the price. It's also
most of the time the wrong decision for the business. Getting people to buy is not the objective
of a business, making money is, and lowering price is a one-way road to destruction for most.
You can only go down to zero, but you can go infinitely high in the other direction.
So unless you have a revolutionary way of decreasing your cost one-tenth compared to your competition,
don't compete on price. As Dan Kennedy said, there's no strategic benefit to being the second
cheapest in the marketplace, but there is for being the most expensive. So the goal of our
grand slam off will be to get more people to say yes at a higher price by increasing our value
to price discrepancy. In other words, we will raise our price only after we have sufficiently
increased our value. This way, they still get a great deal, think buying $100,000 for the value
for only $10,000. It's money to discount. Free gift number three bonus tutorial and free downloads
charge what it's worth. If you want to know how I create value discrepancies for B2B or B2C products,
go to acquisition.com for slash training for slash offers, course, and then watch
charge what it's worth for a short video tutorial. My goal is to gain your trust and deliver
value in advance. As such, it's absolutely free. Enjoy. Why should charge so much it hurts?
Most business owners are not competing on price or value. In fact, they're not actually competing
on anything at all. Their pricing process typically goes something like this. Step one, look at
marketplace. Step two, see what everyone else offers. Step three, take the average. Step four,
go slightly below to remain quote-competitive end quote. Step five, provide with their competitors
offer with a little more. Step six, end up with a value proposition of more for less.
And the big secret, those competitors they're copying are dead broke. So why on earth copy them?
Pricing where the market is means you're pricing for market efficiency. Over time,
in an efficient marketplace, more competitors enter offering a little more for a little less
until eventually no one can provide any more for any less. At this point, a market reaches
perfect efficiency and the business owners participating make just enough at the end of the month
to keep going. The bottom 10 to 20% of operators get washed out or lose the will to fight.
Then, fresh business owners enter with no idea and repeat the process of their forefathers
and around and around they go. In plain words, pricing this way means you're providing a service
at just above what it costs for you to stay above water. We are not trying to barely stay above water.
We are trying to make egregious amounts of money that will have your relatives asking
if what you do is legal. Again, we are not trying to get the most customers. We are trying to
make the most money. That being said, since there is no strategic benefit to being the second
lowest priced player in your marketplace, allow me to give you a brief overview of why I see
premium pricing as not only a very smart business decision, but a moral one. Furthermore,
it's the only choice that will allow you to truly provide the most value, a unique and
strong position in the marketplace. Let me introduce you to the virtual cycle of price.
I've used this framework in most of the materials I release because it needs to be consistently
reinforced. The forces of the marketplace will grate on your belief system. You must stay strong
and ignore them. Here is the basic premise of why you need to charge a premium if you want to
best serve your customers. When you decrease your price, you decrease your clients' emotional
investment since it didn't cost them much. You decrease your clients' perceived value of your
service since it can't be that good if it's so cheap or priced the same as everyone else.
You decrease your clients' results because they do not value service and are not invested.
You attract the worst clients who are never satisfied until your service is free.
And you destroy any margin you have left to be able to actually provide an exceptional
experience, hire the best people, invest in your people, pamper your clients, invest in growth,
invest in moral locations, or more scale, and everything else you had hoped in the
goal of helping more people solve whatever problem it is that you solve.
In essence, your world sucks. And to make matters worse, your service probably sucks because you
are squeezing blood from the proverbial stone. There's just not enough money left over to make
something exceptional. As a result, you fall in line with the armies of average businesses that
raise to the bottom. I've lived that life. It's terrible. If you love your customers and your
employees, please stop short-changing them when there is a better way. Here's the reverse.
This is what happens when you raise your prices. When you raise your prices, you increase
your clients' emotional investment. You increase your clients' perceived value of your service.
You increase your clients' results because they value your service and are invested.
You attract the best clients who are the easiest to satisfy and actually cost less to fulfill,
and who are most likely to actually receive and perceive the most relative value.
You multiply your margin because you have money to invest in systems to create efficiency,
smart people, improve customer experience, scale your business, and most importantly,
evolve to keep watching the number in your personal bank account go up month after month,
even with reinvesting in your business. This allows you to ultimately enjoy the process
for the long haul and help more people grow rather than burning out and triveling into
obscurity. To swing the argument even further in favor of higher prices, here are a few interesting
concepts. When you raise your price, you increase the value the consumer receives without changing
anything else about your product. Wait, what? Yes. Higher price means higher value, literally.
In a blind taste test, researchers ask consumers to rate three wines, a low price wine,
a medium price wine, and an expensive wine. Throughout the study, the participants rated the
wines with the prices visible. They rated them unsurprisingly in order of their price with the
most expensive being the best, the second most expensive being the second best, and the third
cheapest option being rated as a cheap wine. What the tasteers didn't know is that the researchers
gave them the exact same wine all three times. Yet, the tasteers reported a wide discrepancy between
the high priced wine and the cheap wine. This has deep implications for the direct relationship
between value and price. In essence, raising your prices can directly enhance the value provide.
What's more, the higher the price the more a lawyer product or service has. People want to buy
expensive things. They just need a reason. And the goal isn't to just be slightly above market
price. The goal is to be so much higher that a consumer thinks to themselves, this is so much more
expensive, there must be something entirely different going on here. That is how you create a
category of one. In this new perceived marketplace, you are a monopoly and can make monopoly profits.
That is the point. One final point I want to drive home. If you offer a service where a customer
must do something in order to achieve the result or solve the problem you say you solve,
they must be invested. The more invested they are, the more likely they are to achieve the positive
result. Therefore, it follows that if you care about your customers, you should get them as
invested as humanly possible. Ideally, this means pricing your services or product in such a way
that it stings a little when they buy. That sting will force and focus their attention and their
investment in your product or service. Those who pay the most, pay the most attention. And if
your customers are more adherent and follow through and if they achieve better results with your
service than your competition, then you are in a very real way providing more value than anyone else.
This is how you win. But I know this isn't easy and it shouldn't be. Your product must deliver.
So many wish to shortcut the real work. Do that and you will fail. In the real world,
to have the quote gonads to charge big ticket prices, you must outwork yourself out. You must
be so confident in your delivery because you have done it so many times that you know that this
person will succeed. Experience is what gives you the conviction to ask for someone's entire
your salary as payment. You must believe so deeply in your solution that when you look at yourself
in the mirror at night alone, your conviction remains unshakable. So let me bring this section
home with my personal experience, my premium price experience. In my first niche consulting
business, Jim launch, I teach owners a better business model. Before proxysing my consulting
services, I flew out to 33 gyms in 18 months to do full gym turnarounds. We would fly out, fix
everything in gym and relaunch it in 21 days. We would average an increase in $42,000 in additional
sales in 21 days. It was wild. My fee was 100% of the revenue I would bring in. At our peak,
we were turning around eight gyms a month. This quickly became a logistical nightmare.
After the wear and tear of living in motels month after month after month, I thought to myself,
there has to be a better way to do this. One month, there was a gym we were scheduled to go fly
out to, but I simply didn't want to do it. So I told them we were going to cancel the engagement.
The gym owner practically threatened me to help him. So I said I would help him, but he would have
to do other work, but I would show him how. Within 30 days, this gym made almost $44,000 in new
upfront cash collected, which was four times their previous month. As soon as I saw that my process
could be duplicated from afar, without me having to fly people in, our business exploded. I had
found the missing link because my travel schedule was no longer a constraint. We went on to sell 4,000
plus more gyms over the next few years and counting using a done with you rather than done for you
model, but back to premium pricing. When I entered the space, low price competitors offered full
service marketing solutions for $500 per month, with a single high price competitor charging $5,000
for his product. I wanted to be the premium price leader. I wanted to be so expensive that it
created a lure around what we were doing. So we came in at three times the highest price player
and 32 times more than the lowest price player. A price of $16,000 for 16 week done with you intensive.
Then we upsold 35% of those people to a three year $42,000 per year agreement for us to help
them grow their gyms. For context, the average gym owner makes $35,280 per year and take home profits.
If that's the average, it means half make even less than that. So for many of them, they were
committing to half of their yearly salary or more to buy our program. And I was selling this to
grown men as a kid in his 20s, telling them I was going to help them make more money. This was
possible because my conviction was stronger than their skepticism. How? Based on a voluntary survey
taken at our last full company event, with 158 gyms responding, we found that a gym launch gym
who has been in our program for 11 months will experience the following average improvements.
Top line revenue growth of $239,000 per year. Recurring revenue growth of $160,000 a year.
Bottom line growth, aka profit, from 2943 per month to 8940 per month. That's 3.1x increase.
Average client growth of an additional 67 clients. Churn, aka percentage of clients who leave each
month, drops from 10.7% before to 6.8%. Retail sales, an additional 4400 per month and retail sales
after they started working with us. Prices, on average, went from 129 per month to 167
per month and average revenue per gym member. Their survey just proved what I already knew.
I had complete conviction of our product. I knew it worked. I had outworked myself out.
Summary points. What should you take from this? First and foremost,
charge a premium. It will allow you to do things no one else can to make a client successful.
We were able to charge a premium because we provided more value than anyone else in the industry.
In a real way, we were charging only a fraction of what our clients made using our system.
This is important. Our clients still got a deal. The gap between what they paid, price, and what they
got, value was massive. As a result, the virtuous cycle continued to spin. We charged the most
money, we provided the most value. Our gym for main the most competitive, made the most money,
always had the latest and best acquisition systems, and had the support to implement the
meant lightning speed. We made many mistakes along the way, but our pricing model was not one of them.
It allowed me the room to make big bets without losing the farm. The truth is that 99% of businesses
need to raise their prices to grow, not lower them. Profit is oxygen. It fuels the fire of growth.
You need that if you want to reach more people and make a bigger impact.
In order to charge so much, though, you must learn to create tremendous value. Let's head there next.
Hey guys, hope you enjoyed the second episode of $100 million dollars offers.
The follow-up to this is that we have a course available on the site. If you're a visual learner,
you like watching things. I have a full slide deck, presentation, checklist, documents,
everything that goes along with this book. It's absolutely free. You don't even have to give me your
email. It's free. It's on my site at acquisition.com for its last training. Poke around. There's other
courses there that I think you'll also enjoy. Next episode, we're going to be going over probably the
single most famous chapter in the book, the value equation. I'll have a special little secret
surprise at the end of that episode as well. I hope you guys enjoyed as much as I enjoyed making it for you.
Welcome back to episode three of $100 million offers, the audio edition and
collab with the game podcast. Today's episode is the most famous chapter that I
wrote in the book, the value equation. It's probably the most retweeted, the
most shared, the most posted concept. This concept changed my life and changed my
businesses and I hope it does the same for you. At the very end I have a
special call to action that would mean the world to me if you got value from
this free content. It takes a second. And again, it would mean the world.
Section three, value, create your offer, how to make offers so good, people feel
stupid saying no.
Chapter six, value offer, the value equation. We question all of our beliefs,
except for the ones we really believe in and those we never think to question.
Orson Scott card. I want to be abundantly clear, the goal should be to charge as
much money for your products or services as humanly possible. I'm talking
heinous amounts of money. That being said, anyone can raise their prices, but
only a select few can charge these rates and get people to say yes. From this
point forward, you must have been in any notion you have about what's fair.
Every enormous company in the world charges you money for things that cost them
nothing. It costs pennies for the phone company to add an additional user,
except they don't mind charging you hundreds of dollars per month for access.
It costs pennies to manufacture pharmaceutical drugs, but they don't mind
charging hundreds of dollars per month for it. Media companies charge
advertisers, a king's ransom for your eyeballs, and it costs them next to nothing
to get you to like kid and photos on social media. You need to have a big
discrepancy between what something costs you and what you charge for it.
It is the only way to become unreasonably wealthy.
Many entrepreneurs believe that charging too much is bad. The reality is yes.
You should never charge more than your product is worth.
Be sure to charge far more for your product and services than it costs to
fulfill. Think up to a hundred times more, not just two or three times more.
And if you provide enough value, it should always still be a steal for the
prospect. That is the power of value. It unleashes unlimited pricing and
profit power to scale your company. For example, one of my private clients,
whose company I have equity in in our portfolio, is in the photography space.
Over two years, implementing the tactics outlined in this book,
the owner was able to increase the average ticket from $300 to $1500.
That's a 5X increase, gasp. Even cooler, they now spend less time per
customer and have higher customer satisfaction. The 5X increase in average
ticket, 38Xed the profit of the business. It went from making $8,000
a week in profit to $38,000 per week in profit and continues to grow.
As a result, the company was finally able to continue to scale to multiple
locations and provide meaningful work to great employees.
And a fun benefit, we were able to donate even more money to children's
charities, which is something the owner and I have in common,
almost a million dollars at the time of this writing.
But none of that would have been possible without figuring out what people valued
most, tripling down on it and ruthlessly eliminating everything else.
A 5X price increase may seem crazy to you, but clients voted with their
dollars that what the company provides now is far better than what it did before.
Cracking value opens up the world of unlimited profit,
impact, and possibilities. Those who understand value are the ones
who will be able to charge the most money for their services.
The good news is that there is a repeatable formula that I have created.
I've never seen it displayed elsewhere to help quantify the variables that
create value for any offer. I call it the value equation.
Once you see it, you can never unsee it.
It will operate in your subconscious running in the background,
calling out to you. It's a new lens through which to see the world.
The value equation, dream outcome, times perceived likelihood of achievement,
divided by time delay, times effort and sacrifice, equals value.
Free gift number four, value equation bonus tutorial and free downloads.
If you want to know how I break down businesses core offering into something more valuable,
go to acquisitions.com, forward slash trainings, forward slash offers,
and select the value equation video to watch a short tutorial.
I also included downloadable checklist,
my goal is to gain your trust and deliver value in advance.
As such, it's absolutely free. Enjoy.
So as you can see, or here, there are four primary drivers to value.
Two of the drivers, which are the top two parts of the equation,
you will seek to increase.
The other two on the bottom of the equation,
you will seek to decrease.
So one, yay, the dream outcome, our goal is to increase.
Two, yay, perceived likelihood of achievement, our goal is to increase.
Three, Boo, perceived time delay between start and achievement,
our goal is to decrease.
Four, Boo, perceived effort and sacrifice, our goal is to decrease.
If you notice the questions in the last section that my father asked me,
you'll see the corresponded with these pillars.
What will I make, dream outcome?
How will I know it's going to happen, perceived likelihood of achievement?
How long will it take, time delay?
What is expected of me?
Effort and sacrifice, get the bottom to zero.
In the beginning of my career, I focused all my attention on dream outcomes
and the perception of achievement, social proof, third party edification, etc.
In other words, the top side of the equation.
That's where beginner marketers make bigger and bigger claims.
It's easy and it's lazy.
But as time has gone on, I have realized that these larger than life claims
are the easiest to establish and therefore less unique.
After all, anyone can make a promise.
The harder and more competitive are the time delay and effort and sacrifice.
The best companies in the world focus all their attention on the bottom side of the equation.
Making things immediate, seamless and effortless.
Apple made the iPhone effortless compared to other phones at the time.
Amazon made purchasing a single click of a button and made purchases arrive almost immediately.
Maybe by the time you read this, they'll be sending drones to our doors within 60 minutes.
Netflix made consuming television immediate and effortless.
So, the older I get, the more I have shifted my focus to the quote hard stuff,
decreasing the bottom side of the equation.
And I believe the better you do this, the more you will be rewarded by the marketplace.
Bono, no.
The reason this is a division equation and not addition,
is that I want to convey one key point.
If you can make the bottom part of the equation equal to zero, you are golden.
No matter how small the top side is, anything divided by zero equals infinity,
which is technically undefined for math nerds.
In other words, if you can reduce your prospects true time delay to receiving value to zero,
aka, you realize your immediate dream outcome and your effort and sacrifices zero,
you have an infinitely valuable product.
If you accomplish this, you win the game.
Given this postulate, a prospect would, in theory, purchase something from you,
and the moment their credit card was run, it would immediately become their reality.
That is infinite value.
Imagine clicking the purchase button on a weight loss product and instantly seeing
your stomach turn into a six pack.
Or imagine hiring a marketing firm and as soon as you sign your document,
your phone begins to ring with new, highly qualified prospects.
How valuable would these products or services be?
Infinitely valuable.
And that's the point.
I don't know if we entrepreneurs will ever get there,
but that is the hypothetical limit we should all strive towards
and why I structured the equation this way.
Perception is reality.
Perception is reality.
It's not about how much you increase your prospects likely to have success,
or decrease the time delay to achievement,
or decrease their effort and sacrifice.
That in and of itself is not valuable.
Many times, they will have no idea.
The grants I'm offer only becomes valuable once the prospect perceives
the increase in likelihood of achievement,
perceives the decrease in time delay,
and perceives the decrease in effort and sacrifice.
A prime example of this happened on the London Tunnel System.
The biggest increase in rider satisfaction, aka value,
was never from faster trains to decrease weight times.
Instead, it was from a simple dotted map
that showed them when the next train was coming
and how long they had to wait.
The dotted map, which only cost a few million dollars,
decreased the rider's perception of time delay and sacrifice,
aka being word-weighting,
more than actually making the trains faster,
which cost billions of dollars to do.
Isn't that cool?
This is how we need to think about our products.
Pro tip.
Logical versus psycho-logical solutions.
Most people naturally try and solve problems using logical solutions,
but the logical solutions have already been tried.
Because they're logical,
it's what everyone would have tried to.
As business owners and entrepreneurs,
I increasingly approach problems
to find psychological solutions
rather than logical ones.
Because if there were a logical solution,
it probably would have already been solved,
thereby eliminating the problem.
All that remains are the psychological problems.
Example inspired by Rory Sutherland,
CMO of Oglevy advertising.
Any fool can sell a product by offering it for a discount.
It takes great marketing to sell the same product for a premium.
Logical solution.
Make trains faster to increase satisfaction.
Psychological solution.
Decrease the pain of waiting by adding a dotted map.
Psychological solution.
Pay models to be the hostesses on the trip.
People would wish it took longer to get to their destination.
Logical solution.
Make elevator faster.
Psychological solution.
Add floor to ceiling mirrors so people are distracted
staring at themselves and forget how long they were on the elevator.
Logical solution.
Make it cheaper.
Psychological solution.
Make fewer of them and raise the price
which would cause more people to want it.
Often, most logical solutions have been tried and failed.
At this point in history,
we must give the psychological solutions a shot to solve problems.
As such, as business owners,
it's up to us to communicate these value drivers
with clarity to increase the prospect's perception of these realities.
The extent to which you answer these questions
in the mind of your prospect will determine the value you are creating.
Only then will we truly be able to realize
the actual value of our product to the marketplace
and by extension,
the egregious prices we wish to charge.
It's difficult to separate four-value drivers from one another
as most vehicles combine many of these elements together,
but I will do my best to isolate and clearly explain each one below.
Number one, dream outcome.
Our goal.
Increase.
People have deep, unchanging desires.
This is what marriages are lost over,
wars are fought over, and people willingly die for.
Our goal is not to create desire.
Our goal is simply to channel that desire
through our offer and monetization vehicle.
The dream outcome is the expression of that feeling
and experiences the prospect has envisioned in their mind.
It's the gap between their current reality and their dreams.
Our goal is to accurately depict that dream back to them
so they feel understood and explain how our vehicle will get them there.
The dream outcome is simple.
It's the getting there where the value gets enhanced or detracted.
People generally and our clients specifically want
to be perceived as beautiful, to be respected,
to be perceived as powerful, to be loved,
to increase their status.
These are all powerful drivers.
But multiple vehicles may accomplish the same thing.
Take the desire to be perceived as beautiful, for example.
There are a lot of things that touch on this desire.
Make up, anti-aging creams or serums, supplements,
shapewear, plastic surgery, fitness.
All of these vehicles channel the desire
to be perceived as beautiful.
And we further unpack the idea of a desire to be beautiful.
We see that it may be a surface-level declaration
of a deeper desire to achieve higher status in one social group.
The dream outcome value driver
is most prominently used when comparing the relative value
between two different desires being satisfied.
In general, the dream outcome that most directly
increases the prospect's status
will be the one they value the most.
As such, a prospect may value
that entire category of vehicles that satisfy one desire
more than another category that satisfies a different desire.
For many men, making money is more important than being handsome.
Why?
Because money drives status for men more than being handsome does.
So in general, they will value all offers that make them money
more than offers that help them look good.
I once heard Russell Brunson tell a story about this concept.
He explained how his wife called it
at first hearing this status concept rejected it.
She claimed she wasn't driven by status
and would never want a Lamborghini.
Instead, she favored her minivan.
But, after talking further,
she revealed it was because driving a Lamborghini
would decrease her status amongst her mom friends
while driving a minivan
which showed that she was a good mom,
increased in status.
So it's not about the money.
It's about the status.
The perceived increase or decrease in relative standing
when compared to others socially or professionally.
Talk in terms of things your prospect believes
will increase their status
and you will have your prospects drooling.
Pro tip.
Frame benefits in terms of status gained
from the viewpoint of others.
When riding copy, you can make it that much more powerful
by talking about how other people
will perceive the prospect's achievement.
Connect the knots for them.
Example, if you buy this golf club,
your drive will increase by 40 yards.
Your golf buddies,
jaws will drop when they see your ball
sore 40 yards past theirs.
They will ask you what's changed,
only you will know.
That being said,
when comparing two products or services
that satisfy the same desire,
the value from the dream outcomes will cancel out
since they are the same.
It will be the other three variables
that drive the difference in perceived value
and ultimately price.
For example,
if we had two products or services
that both help make someone beautiful,
it will be the likelihood of achievement,
time delay,
and effort required that will differentiate
the perceived value of each offer.
Simply put,
if two things make someone beautiful,
what makes one worth $50,000
and another worth $5?
Answer,
the extent of the other three value variables.
Number two,
perceived likelihood of achievement,
our goal,
increase.
This was the last of the variables that I added
when trying to think through this framework
a few years ago.
I just felt like something was missing
with only the other three.
Then I realized people pay for certainty.
They value certainty.
I call this the perceived likelihood of achievement.
In other words,
how likely do I believe that it is
that I will achieve the result
that I am looking for if I make this purchase?
For example,
how much would you pay
to be a plastic surgeon's 10,000th patient
versus their first?
If you're a normal,
same person,
a lot more.
I mean, heck,
you might even ask them to pay you
if you're their first patient ever.
So you can see even from this simple example
that while the service you're receiving
is technically the same,
the only thing that changes is
your perceived likelihood of getting what you want.
Both surgeons take the same amount of time
to do the surgery.
If anything, the guy who has done it 10,000 times
would likely get it done faster
and still charge more.
The more experienced surgeon has a track
record of achieving result,
which incentivizes their desirability.
People value this perceived
likelihood of achievement.
Increasing a prospect's conviction
that your offer will actually work for them
will make your offer that much more valuable.
Even though the work remains the same on your end.
So to increase value with all offers,
we must communicate perceive likely of achievement
through our messaging,
proof,
what we choose to include or exclude in our offer
and our guarantees.
More on this later.
Number three, time delay.
Our goal increase.
Time delay is the time between a client
buying and receiving the promised benefit.
The shorter the distance between
when they make the purchase
and when they receive value,
slash the outcome,
the more valuable your service or product is.
There are two elements to this driver of value,
long-term outcome and short-term experience.
Many times, there are short-term experiences
that occur and route to the long-term outcomes.
They happen along the way and provide value.
It's good to understand both.
The thing people buy is the long-term value,
aka the dream outcome.
But the thing that makes them stay long enough
to get it is the short-term experience.
These are the little milestone
a prospect sees along the way
that shows them they are on the right path.
We try and tie as many of these as possible
into any service we offer.
We want clients to have a big emotional win early
as close as possible to their purchase.
This gives them the emotional buying
and the momentum to see it through to their ultimate goal.
For example, it takes a while to add
an extra $239,000 per year to a gym,
but that's what they're buying.
So once they have purchased,
we need to create emotional wins fast.
One of the ways we do this is to get their ads live
and get them to close their first $2,000 sale
within their first seven days.
By doing this, their decision to work with us is reinforced
and they immediately trust us more.
This makes them more likely to follow the rest of our systems
and get to their ultimate destination.
Pro tip, fast wins.
Always try and incorporate short-term immediate wins for a client.
Be creative.
They just need to know that they're on the right path
and they made the right decision
trusting you in your business.
Let me give you another example.
If I sell someone a bikini body,
their time to lay to realize that Alka
may be 12 months or even longer.
Along the way, though,
as they change their bodies,
they may experience higher sex drive,
more energy and an increased community of friends.
They aren't initially buying those things,
but those things may become short-term benefits
that keep them in the game long enough
to achieve their ultimate outcome.
They buy the dream,
but they stay for the benefits they discover along the way.
The faster and more clearly you can demonstrate
those benefits, the more valuable your service will be.
For a weight loss customer,
we would get them to meet someone else
so they immediately had some social benefits from the program.
And we usually give them a more aggressive diet in the beginning.
Why?
Because we want them to have a big,
fast, emotional win
so we could get them to commit to the long term.
This is also backed by science.
People who experience a victory early on
are more likely to continue with something
than those who do not.
That being said,
having to wait 12 to 24 months
to get you what you want is a long time
when you can do liposuction
and be done in an afternoon.
This just shows one of the reasons people
pay $25,000 for liposuction with a tummy tuck,
while people will barely pay $100 a month to join a bootcamp.
But that's not the only reason is it.
That leads me to the last driver of value,
effort and sacrifice.
Pro tip, fast beats free.
The only thing that beats free is fast.
People will pay for speed.
Many companies have entered free spaces
and done exceedingly well with a speed first strategy.
A few notable companies,
the MVD versus the DMV,
wait in line forever or pay $50,
you can skip the line and get your license renewed privately.
FedEx versus USPS,
when it absolutely positively has to be there overnight.
Spotify versus slow-free music.
Uber versus walking.
Fast beats free.
Many will always be willing to pay price
for the value of speed.
So if you find yourself in a market competing against free,
double down on speed.
Number four,
effort and sacrifice.
Our goal,
decrease.
This is what it costs people
and it's laery costs,
aka other costs accrued along the way.
These can be both tangible and intangible.
Using the fitness liposuction example,
let's look at the difference in effort and sacrifice.
Fitness effort and sacrifice.
Wake up one to two hours earlier in the morning,
five to 10 hours per week of time lost,
stop eating the foods you love,
constant hunger, physical soreness,
feelings of embarrassment
and not knowing how to exercise,
risk of injury,
literal nausea working out,
meal prepping,
new groceries,
more expensive groceries,
new clothing,
fear of gaining it back after all this effort,
aka impermanence,
etc.
liposuction effort and sacrifice.
Follow sleep,
wake up thin,
guaranteed,
be sore for two to four weeks.
Massive difference, right?
In fact,
in looking at the marketing of plastic surgeons,
these are the exact pain points they hit on
when they say things like
tired of wasting countless hours in the gym,
tired of diets that just don't work.
This is why when you self fitness,
you have to spend an hour
arm wrestling a client to give over one tenth
or one one hundred
of the amount of money they pay for surgery,
there's just not a lot of perceived value
because the perceived like that of achievement,
the time to lay to achievement
and the effort and sacrifice are so high.
So even though the outcome is the same,
the value of the vehicles are dramatically different,
hence the difference in price,
decreasing the effort and sacrifice
or at least the perceived effort and sacrifice
can massively boost the appeal of your offer.
In an ideal world,
a prospect would want to simply say yes
and have their dream outcome happen
with no more effort on their behalf.
This is why done for you services
are almost always more expensive than do it yourself
because a person doesn't have to do
all the effort and sacrifice.
There's also a component of perceived
likelihood of achievement,
difference as well.
People believe that if an expert does it,
then they will be more likely to achieve the outcome
than if they try on their own.
My hope is that you now have a foundational
understanding of the components of value
and how the interplay between each of the components
creates or detracts from the value
someone might be willing to pay,
putting it all together.
As I said earlier,
these elements of value don't happen in a vacuum.
They happen together in combination.
So let's look at a few examples
that utilize all four components of value of once.
In an effort to quantify the value,
I'll rate them on a binary scale of zero or one.
One being value achieved,
zero being missing.
Then I will add all four together
to give you a relative value rating of a type of service.
Our goal as marketers and business owners
is to increase the value of the dream outcome
and its perceived likelihood of achievement
while decreasing the time delay of achievement
and the effort and sacrifice one has to put in to get there.
To start,
I will do a side-by-side comparison
of two vehicles with identical dream outcomes,
meditation and Xanax,
both offer the buyer relaxation,
decreased anxiety,
and feelings of well-being.
I will demonstrate how the other three variables
dramatically shift the value
of delivering that dream outcome
and ultimately the price.
Meditation versus Xanax.
So I'm going to read the chart below
to compare relative scores
on each of the four value drivers.
Meditation,
dream outcome,
relaxation,
decreased anxiety,
feelings of well-being,
score one out of one,
perceived likelihood of achievement,
low since most people get distracted
and don't actually think they'll follow through
with daily meditation.
Score zero out of one.
Time delay.
Long time to yield long-term results.
Some immediate benefits after 10 to 20 minutes,
assuming you don't get frustrated.
Score 0.5 out of one.
Effort and sacrifice.
Physical discomfort,
numbody limbs often,
mental discomfort,
feeling like you are feeling constantly.
Time sacrifice.
You have to set aside time every day to do this.
Score zero out of one.
Overall value score for meditation.
Low.
1.5 out of four.
Now let's look at Xanax.
Dream outcome.
Same as meditation.
Relaxation,
decreased anxiety,
feelings of well-being,
score one out of one.
Perceived likelihood of achievement.
High since most people are confident
that if they take the pill,
he will make them feel more relaxed.
Score one out of one.
Time delay.
15 minutes for effects to be felt.
Score one out of one.
Effort and sacrifice.
Swallowing a pill.
Score one out of one.
Overall value score.
High four out of four.
And that is why Xanax is a multi-billion dollar product
while I know of almost no multi-billion dollar
meditation businesses.
Value.
I'm not here to argue about whether meditation is better
than Xanax.
Obviously it is.
But that doesn't mean it's perceived as more valuable.
This is also the reason that supplement industry.
123 billion,
according to Grandview Research,
is twice the size of the health club industry.
62 billion, according to HRSA.
They both accomplish the same perceived objectives.
Being healthy, losing weight,
looking good at increasing energy, etc.
But one is perceived as more valuable
because it has lower costs.
People are more willing to pay $200 for supplements
than they offer a $29 per month membership.
Taking a pill or drinking a shake is so much faster
and easier than going to the gym every day.
Hence valued.
Crazy world we live in.
And you can either sit there and make
complain posts about how people ought to be a certain way
or you can take advantage of the way people are and capitalize.
This book is for those people who want to be victors
not victims of circumstance.
You can either be right or you can be rich.
This book is for getting rich.
If that bothers you,
you can put this down and go back to arguing
against human nature.
Hence, you're not going to change it.
Now, that being said,
knowing what people value versus what is good for them is key.
It means you can find ways to monetize
the things that people value in order to give them
what they really need.
When, when?
You can make your dent in the universe
while making a profit.
Hey guys, if you're struggling to keep track of this
or you like highlighting,
you're like writing notes in the margin
or you like seeing the frameworks.
You might not know this,
but I actually hand drew every single framework inside of this book.
And I think there's at least 50 hand drawn images
and frameworks inside this book
that I painstakingly put together to make the consumption
easier and so that it stores in more parts of your brain.
And so if that sounds at all interesting,
you can go to Amazon and grab the physical copy
or the Kindle version of that
if you prefer either of those formats they're available to you.
Chapter 7.
Pre-Goodwill.
Key who said money can't buy happiness
hasn't given enough away.
Source unknown.
People who help others with zero expectation
experience higher levels of fulfillment,
live longer and make more money.
I'd like to create the opportunity to deliver this value
to you during your reading or listening experience.
In order to do so,
I have a simple question for you.
Would you help someone you've never met
if it didn't cost you money,
but you never got credit for it?
If so, I haven't asked to make on behalf of someone you do not know
and likely never will.
They are just like you,
or like you were a few years ago.
Less experienced, full of desire to help the world,
seeking information, but unsure where to look.
This is where you come in.
The only way for us at acquisition.com
to accomplish our mission of helping entrepreneurs
is first by reaching them.
And most people do, in fact,
judge a book by its cover and its reviews.
If you have found this book valuable thus far,
would you please take a brief moment right now
and leave an honest review of the book and its contents?
It will cost you zero dollars and less than 60 seconds.
Your review will help one more entrepreneur support his or her family.
One more employee find work they find meaningful.
One more client experienced a transformation
the otherwise would not have encountered.
One more life changed for the better.
To make that happen,
all you have to do is,
and this takes less than 60 seconds,
leave a review.
If you're on Audible,
hit the three dots on the top right of your device,
click and rate and review,
and then leave a few sentences about the book with a star rating.
If for some reason they have changed the functionality,
you can go to the book page of Amazon,
or wherever you purchase this,
and leave a review right on the page.
PS,
if you feel good about helping a faceless entrepreneur,
you are my kind of people.
I'm that much more excited to help you crush it
in the coming chapters.
You'll love the tactics I'm about to go over.
PPS,
Lifehack.
If you introduce something valuable to someone,
they associate that value with you.
If you'd like goodwill,
directly from another entrepreneur,
send this book their way.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Now back to our regularly scheduled programming,
your biggest fan, Alex.
Hey guys, hope you enjoyed the value equation.
I'm just going to reiterate the one thing,
which is that help me share this knowledge with people.
Obviously it's on my podcast for free.
You can share the actual podcast itself.
The most helpful thing to do if you're sending to a friend
will probably be to send the first episode
so they can listen to this in order for the book.
But to reach a stranger rather than just your friends,
there's probably an entrepreneur out there
who hasn't read this stuff
and could absolutely change his life or her life
and their family's lives as a result.
And so if you could leave the book a review on Amazon,
it took me two days to record this.
If you could take 60 seconds to do it,
it would just mean a lot to me.
And maybe even change someone else's life.
So if you could do that, that would be awesome.
And you would be awesome too.
Welcome to episode four of $100 million offers in this episode we'll be
coming the thought process behind making a grand slam offer value offer part
one and value offer part two. It was such an in-depth media chapter. This is the
meat and potatoes. This is where the rubber hits the road. This is where you
actually make something that people cannot say no to as soon as you show it to
them. I hope you enjoy and use it.
Chapter eight value offer the thought process. If at first you don't succeed try try
try again Thomas H. Palmer teachers manual. I want to do an exercise with you
right now. I want to show you the difference between convergent and divergent
problem solving. Why? So that you can actually create the grand slam offer that
will become the cornerstone of your business. Convergent and divergent
thinking. In simple terms, convergent problem solving is where you take lots of
variables all known with unchanging conditions and converge on a singular answer.
Think math. Example you have three salespeople who can each take 100 calls per
month. It takes four calls to create one sale including no shows. You need to
get to 110 sales. How many salespeople must you hire? Deduced information. One
salesperson equals 100 calls. Four calls equal one close. 100 calls divided by
four calls per close equals 25 closes per 100 calls. 25 closes per rep. Goal 110
sales total divided by 25 sales per rep equals 4.4. Since you can't hire 4.4
reps you decide you must have five answer and since you have three you hire two
more. Math problems are convergent. There are a lot of variables and a single
answer. We are taught all our lives in school to think this way. That's because
it's easy to grade. But life will pay you for your ability to solve problems
using a divergent thought process. In other words, think of many solutions to a
single problem. Not only that, convergent answers are binary. They either write
or wrong. With divergent thinking, you can have multiple right answers and one
answer that is way more right than the others. Cool, right? Here's what life
presents us for divergent thinking. Multiple variables known and unknown,
dynamic conditions, multiple answers. As such, I want to do an exercise with you
right now that will engage the part of your brain that you will need to use in
order to make something magical. I call it the brick exercise. Don't worry, it
will take 120 seconds. The brick exercise. Right now, I want you to set a
time around your phone for 120 seconds. What you need to do, think of a brick.
Write down as many different uses of a brick as you can possibly think of. How
many different ways could a brick be used in life to provide value? Ready? Go.
It's okay to write in the book or write on a note pad on the side. All right,
stop. Now, before I show you my list, did you consider the following? How big is
the brick? A tap of gum, three to five by eight, two to one by four, standard,
two feet by two feet by six feet. What's the brick made of? Plastic, gold, clay,
wood, metal. How's the bear shaped? Does it have holes in it? Does divots for
interlocking? Now, as you think about that, can you think of even more uses for
the brick than you probably wrote down? Well, here's my list. Paperweight, doorstep,
building things, home for a fish and a fishbowl, plant holder with dirt holes,
hold brick, as a trophy painted brick, rustic decoration, to brick a window,
make a mural, tiny bricks painted, a wait for resistance training, a wedge under
an uneven platform, pen holder for hold brick, children's toy, Lego bricks,
flotation device, plastic brick, payment for goods, gold brick, stabilizer for
leaning against something, retainer of value, holder for flagpole, hold brick,
a seat, jumbo brick. Every offer has building blocks, the pieces that
one combined make an offer irresistible. Our goal is to use a divergent
thought process to think of as many easy ways to combine these elements to
provide value. So if I were selling a brick, I would find out what my
customer desire was, and then devise how many ways I would create value with my
brick. Now let's do it for real.
Chapter 9, value offer. Creating your grand slam offer part one, problems and
solutions. ABC, easy as one, two, three, a simple as dough-raining, Michael Jackson,
ABC. When I started my gym, I struggled. I wanted so deeply to be successful,
prove my dad wrong about my decision to start my own business, and prove to
myself that I was worth something. But try as I did, I couldn't even sell people
into a $99 month bootcamp. People would say, LA Fitness is $29 a month, this is
expensive. I even tried getting people to start for free. They said they wouldn't
bother because $99 a month afterwards was still too much, and they didn't want
to start something they couldn't continue with. It's a new level of frustration
when you can't even give your services away for free to people. I felt
worthless, and I didn't know what to do. Thankfully, during this time, I was in
groups with other gym owners, and I started hearing about marketers and books.
I devoured everything I could, and as soon as I stumbled on Dan Kennedy's books,
I was hooked. In his books, he talked about making ears as the bluffers.
Again, this theme of making an offer so good, people would feel stupid to say no,
kept reappearing. But this time, remembering what TJ had told me, I did
decided to go all in on this concept rather than just do what everyone else was
done. But how? Everyone else was selling $99 per month bookhips. How was I going to compete?
So I decided to look at what we did differently. I thought, what do they really want?
No one wants membership, they want to lose weight.
Step 1. Identify dream outcome. I had heard of weight loss challenges, so I started there.
Lose 20 pounds in six weeks. Big dream outcome, lose 20 pounds, with a decreased time delay,
six weeks. Note, I wasn't selling my membership anymore. I wasn't selling the plane flight,
I was selling the solution. When you are thinking about your dream outcome, it has to be them arriving
at their destination and what they would like to experience. Step 2. List problems.
Next, I wrote down all the things people struggled with and their limiting thoughts around them.
When listing out problems, think about what happens immediately before and immediately after
someone uses your product or service. What's the next thing they need help with? These are the
problems. Think about it in insane detail. If you do, you will create a more valuable and
compelling offer as you'll continually be answering people's next problem as they manifest.
So, let's go ahead and list out the problems from a prospect's perspective as you think about them.
What points of friction exist for them? I like to think about it in sequence that the
customer will experience each of these obstacles. Again, channel insane detail, the more problems
the better. Example problems list. Weight loss. The first thing they must do, buying healthy food,
grocery shopping. Problems 1. Buying healthy food is hard, confusing, and I won't like it.
2. Buying healthy food will take too much time. 3. Buying healthy food is expensive.
4. I will not be able to cook healthy food forever, my family needs will get in the way,
if I travel I won't know what to buy. Next thing they must do, cook healthy food.
1. Cooking healthy food is hard and confusing, I won't like it and I will suck at it.
2. Cooking healthy food will take too much time. 3. Cooking healthy food is expensive, it's not worth
it. 4. I will not be able to cook healthy food forever, my family's needs will get in my way,
and if I travel I won't know how to cook healthy.
Next thing they must do, eat healthy food. Next thing they must do, exercise regularly, etc.
Now we're going full circle here. Each of the above problem says four negative elements,
and you guessed it, each aligns with the four value drivers as well.
Dream outcome, receive likely of achievement, time delay, effort and sacrifice.
1. Dream outcome, this will not be financially worth it.
2. Likely of achievement, it won't work for me specifically, I won't be able to stick with it,
external factors will get in my way. This is the most unique and service specific of the problem
buckets. 3. Effort and sacrifice, this will be too hard, confusing, I won't like it, I will suck
at it. 4. Time, this will take too much time to do, I'm too busy to do this, it will take too
long to work, it will not be convenient for me. Now go ahead and list out all problems your
prospect has. Don't let these buckets which are just meant to help your bring it go and constrain
you. If it's easier for you, just list out everything you can possibly think of.
What I showed here isn't just four problems though, we have 16 core problems with two to
four sub problems underneath. So 32 to 64 problems total. Yowza, no wonder most people don't
achieve their goals. Do not get overwhelmed. This is the best news ever. The more problems you
can think of, the more problems you get to solve. So to recap, just list out each core thing
that someone has to do. Then think of all the reasons they wouldn't be able to do it, or keep
doing it using the four value drivers as a guide. Now we go to the fun part, turning problems
into solutions. Now that we have our dream outcome and all the obstacles that we'll get in
someone's way, it's time to define our solutions and list them out. Creating the solutions list has
two steps. First, we're going to transform our problems into solutions. Second, we're going to name
these solutions. That's it. So let's take a look at our list of problems from earlier. What we're
going to do is simply turn them into solutions by thinking, what would I need to show someone to
solve this problem? Then we're going to reverse each element of the obstacle into solution oriented
language. This is copywriting 101. It's beyond the scope of this book to get into, but simply adding
how to then reversing the problem will give most people new to this process a great place to start.
For our purposes, we are giving ourselves a checklist of exactly what we are going to do
for our prospects and what we are going to solve for them. Once we have our list of solutions,
we will operationalize how we are actually going to solve these problems, aka create value in the
next step. And I want to be 100% clear, you will solve every problem. We'll explore how together
in the next step. Problem, solution, problem, buying healthy food, grocery shopping,
is hard, confusing, I won't like it, I will suck at it, becomes how to make buying healthy food
easy and enjoyable so that anyone can do it, especially moms. Buying healthy food takes too much time.
How to buy healthy food quickly? Buying healthy food is expensive. How to buy healthy food for
less than your current grocery bill? Buying healthy food is unsustainable. How to make buying healthy
food take less effort than buying unhealthy food? Buying healthy food is now my priority. My family
needs to get in the way. How to buy healthy food for you and your family at the same time?
Buying healthy food is undoable if I travel. I won't know what to get. How to get healthy food when
you are traveling? Problem, cooking healthy food is hard, confusing, I won't like it and I will
suck at it, turns into how anyone can enjoy cooking healthy meals easily. Cooking healthy food will
take too much time. How to cook meals in under 5 minutes? Cooking healthy food is expensive and
it's not worth it. How eating healthy is actually cheaper than unhealthy food? Cooking healthy food
is unsustainable. How to make eating healthy last forever? Cooking healthy food is not my priority,
my family needs to get in the way. How to cook healthy food despite your family's concerns?
Cooking healthy food is undoable if I travel. I won't know how to cook healthy, how to travel and
still cook. Problem, eating healthy food, it's hard confusing, etc. How to eat delicious food without
following complicated systems? Problem, exercising regularly, it's hard confusing, etc.,
easy to follow exercise system that everyone enjoys. Okay, that was a lot of problems and a lot of
intuitive solutions courtesy of diverting thinking. You'll also notice that a lot of them are repetitive
and that's totally normal. The value drivers are the four core reasons. Our problems always relate
to those drivers and our solutions provide the needed answer to give a prospect permission to
purchase. What's even crazier is that if even only one of these needs is missing in a solution,
it can cause someone not to buy. You would be amazed at the reasons people do not buy, so don't
limit yourself here. Brooke Castillo is a friend of mine who runs an enormous life coaching business.
To give you a different take on the problem solutions list, Brooke sent me her list as she was
going through this book to make a grand slam offer for a 90 day relationship course. Take a look
to see this process through a totally different lens. The main takeaway though, don't be fancy,
just get all the problems down then turn them into solutions. Regardless of whether the offer you
created is around fitness, like the example, a relationship course, like Brooke, or something wildly
different, like ear eggs, we now know what we need to do. Step four is the how and how to do it
without breaking the bank. Free gift number five bonus tutorial offer creation part one. If you
want to walk through the process with me live, go to acquisition.com trainings for self offers,
then select offer creation part one to watch a short video tutorial with yours truly. As always,
it's absolutely free. I also have a free offer creation checklist for you that you can swipe
in immediately to put in your business and enjoy. Now we will read Brooke's list that she gave and
she sent to me, which you probably can't see because you're listening to this. Dream outcome,
amazing loving relationship in 90 days, problems, no good options, no one's attractive,
no one's available, boring, no chemistry, poor communication, not hot enough, sex isn't good,
no intellectual stimulation, not enough effort in relationship, no time insecurity,
needs aren't being met too many unmet expectations acting crazy emotional,
relationship is dull, want different things, not get it relationships too much pressure,
move too slow, fizzles out fast, sexual incompatibility, solutions list, how to get a list of
prospective partners chosen in 90 days, how to be attracted to your chosen partner, how to feel
available to your partner, how to make sure 90 days is exciting and never boring, how to create
chemistry like you've never known, how to communicate in sexy, fun, meaningful ways,
how to make the relationship hot by being hot, how to have great sex for 90 days,
how to create intellectual stimulation, how to put the effort in the relationship for max return,
how to make time for hourly dopamine love hits, etc.
Hey guys, real quick, if you're enjoying the audio, just want to let you know there's a
physical copy and a Kindle copy available on Amazon for your consumption, I'm the type of person
who likes to consume things in multiple formats and if I love a book, I buy every format because I
like to have it on my phone, I like to have it on my desk, I like to have it when I'm listening in
the car, I like to have it in every place I possibly can't. We also have an audible format if you
just prefer listening to audible instead of podcasts, you can do that too, but just figure out I'd let you know.
Friends to Rachel Green in Friends. I divided this chapter into two parts because it's the
media section in the book, it's also the most important, without a valuable product or service the
rest of the book won't be as actionable. We just covered all the problems we're going to solve,
the second half of making your offer is breaking down tactically what we are going to do or provide
for our client. In theory, we'd all love to fly out and live with our customers to fix their
problems, in reality that wouldn't make a very scalable solution. We need our offer to be
incredibly attractive and profitable. That being said, if this is your first grants I'm offered,
it's important to over-deliver like crazy. Maybe flying out isn't such a bad idea in the beginning,
make some sales, then think about how to make it easier for your clients. You want them to think
to themselves, I get all this for only that. In essence, you want them to perceive tremendous value.
Everyone buys bargains. Some people just buy a hundred thousand or things for only ten thousand
dollars. That's where we want to live, high prices but a steal for the value, like hopefully this
book has been so far. Sales to fulfillment continuum. Something that is easy to sell is typically hard
to fulfill. Most things that are hard to sell are typically easy to fulfill. In order to best absorb
the notions of trimming and stacking, we need a mental reframe, enter the sales to fulfillment
continuum. Whenever you are building a business, you have a continuum between ease of fulfillment
and ease of sales. If you lower what you have to do, it increases how hard your product or service
is to sell. If you do as much as possible, it makes your product or service easy to sell but hard
to fulfill because there's more demand on your time investment. The trick and ultimate goal is to
find the sweet spot where you sell something very well that's also easy to fulfill. I have lived by
the mantra, create flow, monetize flow, then add friction. This means I generate demand first,
then with my offer, I get them to say yes. Once I have people saying yes, then only then will I
add friction in my marketing or decide to offer less for the same price. Practicality drives this
practice. If you can't get demand flowing in, then you have no idea whether what you have is good.
I'd rather do more for every customer and have cash flow coming in, then optimize my business
but have zero cash flow coming in after and have zero idea about what I needed to adjust to
better serve my customers. Here's a perfect example to drive this home. When I start a gym launch,
gym owners reached out asking for help. They needed so much help, I didn't know where to start,
but I wanted to make sure they got more than what they paid me. So here's what I ended up doing
to fill their gyms. I would fly out to their gym for 21 days, spend my own money on hotels,
car rentals, eating out, advertising, generate the leads, work the leads, then sell for them.
I would even do the first onboarding meeting with the clients to get them started. In short,
I did everything. I took on all the risk. They only had to put $500 down to reserve their date,
which I made refundable at the end of their launch. So they had zero financial risk,
zero time risk, zero effort, and the deal was, I got to keep all the upfront cash collected
from selling their services, and they got all the clients are free. You can imagine how this was
a pretty compelling offer. On my own, I was able to sell about $100,000 per month and cash up front
for myself. So these deals were very lucrative for me. Over time, I scaled that to a team of eight
guys selling a month. But this began to wear in me and the team. It was at that point that I realized
that if I were to simply teach them how to do what I did, I would charge maybe a third of what
I would normally make, but I would be able to help hundreds of gyms a month instead of eight.
And I could do it all while slipping in my own bed every night. My promise was fundamentally the same.
I will fill your gym in 30 days. It was simply the how and the what I did that changed.
The how and the what is what we are breaking apart. When talking to business owners about their
model, I tell them to create cash flow by over-delivering like crazy at first. Then use the cash flow
to fix your operations and make your business more efficient. This revision process can be pretty
seamless. You may not even have to change what you offer. You may just end up creating systems that
create the same value for the customer, but cost you significantly fewer resources. Ultimately,
this is how businesses beat one another. Understanding this will be important as you scale your business.
Now that we've established the importance of the full-crumb and how to approach the sales
to fulfillment balance at the outset, let's cover the last two steps of creating our grants
to recap quickly. Remember that we've covered identifying dream outcomes. Step one,
listing problems. Step two, determining solutions. Step three, step four,
create your solutions delivery vehicle. The how. The next step is thinking about all the things you
could do to solve each of these problems you've identified. This is the most important step in the
process. This is what you are going to deliver. This is what you're going to do or provide an
exchange for money. For the purposes of keeping creativity high, divergent thinking,
think about anything you could possibly do. Think of all the things that might enhance the value
you're offering, so much so that it would be stupid to say no. What could you do that someone
would immediately say, all that? Seriously? Yes, I'm in. Doing this exercise will make your job
of selling so much easier. Even if you come up with something you're not actually willing to do,
it's okay. The goal here is to push your limits and jog your brain into thinking of a different
version of the solution you'd normally default to. This is where you get to flesh your entrepreneurial
creativity. Remember, you only need to do this once, literally one time, for a product that may
last years. This is high value, high leverage work. You ultimately get paid for thinking. You got
this. This should be fun. Go ahead and list out all your possibilities now. Then I'll take you
through my example. I'll just use the buying food problem from earlier as an example. I like to
group things by how many people I'm going to deliver this thing to at once. My list is below.
At the bottom, I've given you my quote, cheat codes and quote, for how to think through this
to get even more creative problem. Buying healthy food is hard, confusing, and I won't like it.
If I wanted to provide a one-on-one solution, I might offer a, an in-person grocery shopping
experience where I take clients to the store and teach them how to shop. B, personalized grocery
list where I teach them how to make their own list. C, full service shopping where I buy their
food for them. We're talking 100% done for them. D, in-person orientation. Not at the store where
I teach them what to get. E, tech support while shopping, where I help them if they get stuck.
F, phone call while grocery shopping where I plan to call them when they go shopping to provide
direction and support in real time. If I wanted to provide a small group solution, I might offer
A, in-person grocery shopping where I meet a bunch of people and take them all shopping for
themselves. B, personalized grocery list where I teach a bunch of people how to make their
weekly list. And I could do this one time more every week if I wanted to. C, buy their food for
them where I purchase their groceries and deliver them as well. D, in-person orientation where I
teach a small group offsite what to do. Just not at the store. If I wanted to provide a one-on-one
solution, I might offer a live grocery store tour where I might stream me going through the grocery
store for all my new customers and let them ask questions live. B, a recorded grocery store tour
where I might shop once, record it and then give it as a reference point from that point onwards
from my clients to watch on their own. C, a do-it-yourself grocery calculator where I create a shareable
tool where show them how to use a tool to calculate the grocery list every week. D, predetermined lists
where each customer plan comes with its own grocery list for each week. I could make this ad a
time so they have it. Then they could use it on their own time. E, grocery buddy system.
I could pair each customer with another which takes no time and let's them go shopping together.
F, pre-made Instacart grocery carts for delivery. I could pre-make Instacart lists so clients could
have their groceries delivered to their doorstep with one click. As you see, the list can really go
on and on here. This is just to illustrate the many ways to solve a single problem. Now do this
for all the perceived problems that your clients encounter before, after and during their experience
with your product or service. You should have a monster list by the end of this.
Product delivery cheat codes. What's that? You're having trouble being creative. I'm going to give you
the cheat codes right now, kind of like I did with the brick example, like the brick could be gold or
plastic or half holes in it or be a Lego, etc. Here are my cheat codes for product, variation,
and enhancement and a visual to breakdown the process for you from my consulting deck for my
private portfolio companies. DeliveryCube. A, what level of personal attention do I want to provide?
One on one, small group, one to many. B, what level of effort is expected from them? Do it
themselves, figure out how to do it on their own or do it with them, done with you? You teach them
how to do it or done for you, done for them, you do it for them. See, if doing something live,
what environment or medium do I want to deliver it in? In person, phone support, email support,
text support, zoom support, chat support, D, if doing a recording. How do I want them to consume it?
Audio, visual, written. E, how quickly do we want to reply on what days during what hours?
24, 7, 9 to 5 within 5 minutes within an hour, 24 hours a day. How do I want to support? F,
10x to 1 10th test. If my customers paid me 10 times my price or $100,000, what would I provide?
If they paid me 1 10th of my price and I had to make my product more valuable than it already is,
how would I do that? How could I still make them successful for 1 10th of the price? Stretch your
mind in either direction and you'll come up with widely different solutions? In other words,
how could I actually deliver on these solutions I am claiming I will provide? Do this for each
problem because solutions for one problem will give you ideas for others you wouldn't normally
have considered. Remember, it's important that you solve every problem. I can't tell you the
amount of times one single item becomes the reason someone doesn't buy. AnnicDote, why we must solve
every perceived problem. When I started selling weight loss, I insisted that folks prepare all their
food at home. I found it too difficult to help clients lose weight when they ate out because they
always blew their diets. Rather than solve the problem, I insisted they do it my way, or not at all,
as a result I lost many sales. One month I really needed to make some sales to pay rent.
My next sale walked in the door. It was a business exact looking to lose weight. As we got into
the sales presentation, she told me the program wouldn't work for her because she went out to
eat for lunch every day. Normally, I would have lost the sale. I was a stakeholder for making people
not eat out, but I really needed the money. Refusing to lose the sale because of this one thing,
I conceded. I'll make you an eating out guide for when you go to restaurants so you can eat out
100% of the time and still hit your goal. How does that sound? She agreed. And I closed the sale.
I took the time to make an eating out guide for her. But from that point going forward,
whenever someone said, but what about eating out? I had the solution. Over time, I continued
solving obstacles with templates and trainings until there were no more one things to prevent my sales.
This lesson has stuck with me to this day. Don't get romantic about how you want to solve the problem.
Find a way to solve every problem a prospect presents with. When you do that, you make an offer
that's so good, people just can't say no. And that's what we're building here. Note, you must resolve
every obstacle a buyer believes they will have to convert the highest amount of people. That's not
to say that if you don't, you won't sell people, not at all. You just won't sell it as many people
as you otherwise could have. And that's the goal to sell the most people for the highest possible
price with the highest possible margin. Step five, trim and stack. Now that we've enumerated
our potential solutions, we will have a gigantic list. Next, I look at the cost of providing each
of these solutions to me, the business owner. I remove the ones that are the highest costs in
lowest value first. Then I remove low cost low value items. If you aren't sure what's high value,
go through the value equation and ask yourself, which of these things will this person
one, financially value? Two, cause them to believe they'll be likely to succeed.
Three, make them feel like they can do it with much less effort and less sacrifice.
And four, help them accomplish their goal and see the result they want in far less time.
What should remain are offer items that are one, low cost high value. Or two, high cost high value.
Example, let's say I moved in with someone that they're shopping, exercising and cooking for them.
They would probably believe they would definitely lose weight. But I am not willing to do that for
any amount of money short of a gazillion dollars. The next question becomes, is there a lesser
version of this experience that I can deliver at scale? Just take one step back at a time until
you arrive at something that has a time commitment or cost that you are willing to live with.
Or obviously massively increase your price, so it becomes worth it for you, i.e. the gazillion
dollars to live with someone. If there's one type of delivery vehicle to focus on, it's creating
high value one to many solutions. These will be the ones that typically have the biggest
discrepancy between cost and value. For example, before I started my gym, I had an online training
business. I created a small excel sheet application that after inputting all of someone's goals,
automatically generated 100 meals perfectly suited to their macronutrient calorie needs.
Better yet, depending on which meals they selected, it would tell them what they needed to buy
at the grocery store in exact amounts and how to prepare them in bulk for the exact amounts.
It took me about 100 hours to put together this entire thing. But from that point going forward,
I sold truly personalized eating plants for very expensive prices, but they only took me about 15
minutes to make. High value, low cost. These types of solutions require a high one-time cost
to creation, but infinitely low additional effort thereafter. FYI, this is exactly what software
becomes available. That doesn't mean you don't want to ever do something in a small group or 101
model. After all, I do 101 with all my portfolio companies, CEOs, that we help scale past 30 million
plus. You just want to make sure that you save those high cost items for big value ads only.
If you think you can accomplish the same value with a lower cost alternative, then do that instead.
When I was running my gym, I went through this exact exercising created,
walking blueprints, and eating out system, a travel eating and workout guide,
meal plans for every bodyweight and gender, a grocery list calculator,
plateau-busting meal plans for when they got stuck, fast cooking guides, partnered with a meal prep
service, and did in-person nutrition orientation with every client 101. Many of the
one-to-many solutions require more workup front, but once created, they become valuable assets
that create value in perpetuity. It's worth putting in the time to create these because they
will create high margin profit four years to come. Real talk. The meal plans I made for my
gym have been used by 4000 plus gyms now and literally hundreds of thousands of people. They are
simple and easy to follow, so they've provided ample return for the week or two of dedicated time
I spend making them. And if you ever have the desire to build a repeatable business model,
something that scales, these assets you create will become the bedrock. This book, for example,
is a high value asset that is low cost overall. Sure, it costs me a lot upfront,
but each additional book I sell after my first one will cost me very little and provides tremendous
value. The final high value deliverable. Let's sum this up before we configure our final high value
deliverable. Step one, we figured out our perspective client stream outcome. Step two, we listed out
all the obstacles that are likely to encounter on the way. AKA our opportunities for value creation.
Step three, we listed out all those obstacles as solutions. Step four, we figured out all the
different ways we could deliver those solutions. Step five, we trimmed those ways down to only the
things that were the highest value and lowest cost to us. All we have to do now is step five,
B, put all the bundles together into the ultimate high value deliverable. So let's go back to the
example. We see our prospects struggled with the following, buying food. How anyone can buy food
fast, easy cheaply, which we turn into, foolproof bargain grocery system that'll save hundreds of
dollars per month on your food and take less time than your current shopping routine. $1,000 of
value for the money it'll save you from this point on in your life. A, 101 nutrition orientation
will explain how to use. B, recorded grocery store. C, do it yourself grocery calculator. D,
each plan comes with its own list for the week. E, bargain grocery shopping training. F,
grocery body system. G, pre-made Instagram grocery carts for delivery. H, and a check-in
video text weekly. Cooking. To solve this problem, ready and five minute busy parent cooking guide.
How anyone can eat healthy even if they have no time. $600 value from getting 200 hours per year
back. That's four weeks of work. A, 101 nutrition orientation where I explain how to use. B, meal prep
instructions. C, do it yourself meal prep calculator. D, each plan comes with its own meal
prep instructions for the week. E, meal prep buddy system. F, healthy snacks and under five minutes
guide. G, weekly post they can tag me in for feedback. To solve the eating problem. Personalized
liquid fingers, good meal plans, so good it'll be easier to follow than eating what you used to
cheat with and cost less. $500 value. A, 101 nutrition orientation where I explain how to use.
B, personalized meal plan. C, five minute morning shake guide. D, five minute budget lunches.
E, five minute budget dinners. F, family size meals. G, a daily picture of their meals. H, 101
feedback meeting to make adjustments to their plan. Which FYI was an upsell. Exercise problem.
Fat burning workouts proven to burn more fat than doing it alone. Adjust it to your needs so
you never go too fast, plateau or risk injuries. $699 value. Just off the traveling problem.
The ultimate tone up while you travel eating and workout blueprint for getting amazing workouts
in with no equipment so you don't feel guilty enjoying yourself. $199 value. How to actually
stick with it. The never fall off accountability system. The unbeatable system that works without
your permission. It's even gotten people who hate coming to the gym to look forward to showing up.
That's not our value. How to be social. The live it up while slimming down eating out system that
will give you the freedom to eat out and live life without feeling like the odd man out. $349 value.
Total value. $4,351 all for only $599. Author note. Most of our facilities now sell this
bundle for longer periods of time for $2400 to $5200. As we got better at creating a monetizing
value the prices and profit of our facilities skyrocket. Once you start this value creation process
each additional piece of value creates stacks up over time. This is why it's important to begin.
Can you see how much more valuable this is than a gym membership? The bundle does three core
things. One, it solves all the perceived problems, not just some. Two, gives you the conviction that
what you're selling is one of a kind. Very important. Three, makes it impossible to compare or confuse
your business or offering with the one down the street. We finally have what we are going to
deliver in all its glory. That being said, it's unlikely we would present it this way. Depending
on whether we sell one on one or one to many, we would present this differently. I will address how
to present each of these bundle items in the bonus section, which is the next section.
Summary points. We went through this entire process to accomplish one objective.
To create a valuable offer that is differentiated and unable to be compared to anything else in
the marketplace. We are selling something unique. As such, we are no longer bound by the normal
pricing forces of commoditization. Prospects will now only make a value based rather than a price
based decision on how they should buy from us. Now that we have our core offer, the next
section will be dedicated to enhancing it. We will employ a combination of psychological levers,
bonuses, urgency, scarcity, guarantees, and naming.
Free gift number six bonus tutorial offer creation part two. If you want to walk through this
profit maximizing trimming and stacking process with me live, go to acquisition.com for
slash training for slash offers. I also have some free checklists for you that you can use,
as always, it's absolutely free.
Hey guys, hope you enjoyed the value offer part one and part two.
And the real meat potatoes of making something so good, people feel stupid saying no.
Next episode, we've got another heater coming up, which is the next section of this, which is
offer enhancers. And we're going to talk about probably my two favorite and some of the ones that
move the needle the most, scarcity and urgency. And believe me, you've never seen people move and
take their credit cards out fast. Unless or until you master those two things. All right, so I
can't wait to see see what you guys use from the description or any section. And I'll see you in
the next episode.
Acquisition.com volume one 100 million dollar offers, how to make offer so good, people feel stupid
saying no. Written and performed by Alex Hermosi copyright 2021 acquisition.com audio
production copyright 2021 acquisition.com
Hey guys welcome to the special collaboration between the game podcast and
$100 million offers the audio book. Today we're going to talk about offer
enhancers, specifically scarcity and urgency. First off, the difference between
the two. Second off, the ethical ways of using them in business and the
unethical ways of using it, which I highly don't recommend long-term. You'll
lose money. So definitely use the right way and make more money. That seems
like the best thing to do. I hope you guys enjoy and hey if this podcast has
been useful to you, share it with a friend. You know, I took a year to write this
book and it took me two days to record this audio book for you guys. If it
takes you 15 seconds to click share on this and send it to a friend or share it
on your stories, it would mean the world to me and it might even mean the world
to someone else. Section 4. Enhancing your offer.
Scarcity, urgency, bonuses, guarantees and naming. But wait, there's more. If you
ordered today, every infomercial in the 90s. May 2019 Arnold Schwarzenegger's
home after school all stars fundraiser. The line of cars outside Arnold's house
was around the corner and we were in one of them. We were sitting in our Uber
when a security guard with an earpiece, black suit and black sunglasses
knocked on the driver's window. It was like straight out of a movie. The driver
rolled down the window. Name, Alex and Laila Hermosi. He scanned the list on his
clipboard, nodded, then checked off our names. Great, he said. His demeanor
transformed from stern to inviting. Welcome to the fundraiser. Stay in this
line. You'll make a left, then security will escort you the rest of the way. The
security guard talked into his walkie-talkie to the next post down the road.
Signalling our car was approved. Pulling in front of the estate was like entering a
bond movie. Lamborghinis, Bugatti's, Ferraris and brands of cars that are too
expensive to even speak of. Old guys with young, scan-ally-clad girls,
eyeless actors, celebrities with millions of followers who were recording
themselves as they arrived, talking to their iPhones to their audiences and us.
The fundraiser was 25,000 per ticket to attend with an invite list of only 100.
There was a red carpet in all. Every year the fundraiser culminated in a big
auction for memorabilia and items some of the business owners in the audience
gave away for charity. We walked around looking at the entertainment stations
purposely devised to get donors in the giving mode. We saw $10,000 scotches,
$500 cigars, pre-released items for major brands that wouldn't be available
to the public until months later. And of course, the most expensive cuisine you
could imagine. Laylin and I were just soaking it all in. It was a wonderful
night. We definitely felt like cool kids. Ben, the CEO of the charity, saw
us looking lost and walked over. He took me by the arm and introduced me to some
of the other donors. These were all men who were older than me donating
$100,000 an up without a second thought. The man he introduced me to was one of
the charity's biggest donors. He had built an ultra high in jewelry and watch
business. I'm talking $100,500, $2 million plus rare status symbols that people
buy only so other 0.001%ers know they belong. He had donated upwards of 700,000
in merchandise as prizes for the fundraiser that evening.
Alex and Layla meet George, Ben said. He's been very generous with his time and
money to the cause. George, this is Alex and Layla. They're donating a
million dollars tonight to afterschool stars. I figured you are both good
people and wanted to connect you to. Nice to meet you. George said with
calm and weathered eyes. He was in his late 60s tall and
sturdily built. He adheres Eastern block origins in his accent. He sounded like
a man who had fought tooth and nail to be here, but had softened his demeanor for
gathering such as these. But the tiger with a teeth and claws remained
under the surface ready to be called upon at a moment's notice.
I felt like I understood this guy. Ben broke the ice. So, George was the one who got
me to raise the price from $15,000 per ticket to $25,000.
We had more demand than ever this year, but I took his advice. I cut the amount
of tickets we sold and raised the prices. That's right, George said.
Content that his stage business advice had been followed. When demand increases,
cut supply. He perked up slightly because we started talking about money.
This man had built his business from nothing and had found ways to sell things for
extraordinary profits by understanding human psychology. I had long learned about
supply and demand, but this guy was using its psychological underpinnings to fuel
a fundraising. You could take the tiger out of the jungle, but not the jungle out of the tiger.
People want what they can't have. People want what other people want.
People want things only a select few have access to. He was dead right.
They had raised an extra $1 million that night before the event had even started by cutting
the supply of tickets and raising the prices. On top of that, all the people were more qualified
than ever to be big donors. The night ended being of the most successful night in the
charity's history, raising nearly $5.4 million from only 100 people. That's $5,400 a head.
Each of the items was auctioned off as a one-of-a-kind item, and if you missed it,
you'd never have a chance to buy it again. Aren't we even threw in some bonuses
when two people would get high enough in the bidding, allowing the charity to get both donations?
It was a masterful display of human psychology at work in a setting where people knowingly overpaid
for products. The products remained unchanged, yet within this setting, an item that wouldn't sell
at a different venue for $10,000 sold for $100,000. That's how powerful scarcity, urgency,
and bonuses are, and breaking down how to use them to further increase demand for your offer
without changing your offer is the purpose of this section. Author note. Other persuasion powers
at play. Scarsity, urgency, bonuses, and guarantees were not the only persuasion tools being employed
to get egregious prices at the fundraiser. They also used commitment and consistency,
status, peer pressure, goodwill, celebrity endorsements, competition, etc. However,
scarcity, urgency, bonuses, and guarantees are the four that I'll be breaking down in this book
as I believe they are the ones that belong with the offer and less with the actual selling,
which I will talk about more in depth in acquisition volume 4, $100 million sales.
The delicate dance of desire.
Pictured in the book is a supply and demand curve. Fundamentally, all marketing exist to
influence the supply and demand curve. We artificially increased the demand for our products and services
through some sort of persuasive communication. When we increase the demand, we can sell more units.
When we decrease the supply, we can sell those units for more money. The perfect profit combination
is lots of demand and very little supply or perceived supply. The process of enhancing your offer
is designed to do both of these things. Increased demand and decreased perceived supply,
you can sell the same products for more money than you otherwise could and in higher volumes than
you otherwise would over a long enough time horizon. The new supply demand curve.
Pictured in the book is the group that has been shifted to the right by bonuses,
scarcity, urgency, guarantees, and naming so that you can get more units sold at higher prices.
Author note, this assumes a regular business who is not trying to gain mass market penetration
for some other strategic advantage. Desire comes from not getting what you want. In fact,
I heard this quote that I love from Naval Robocon. Desire is a contract you make with yourself
to be unhappy until you get what you want. It follows, therefore, that we only want things we do not have.
As soon as we have them, our desire for them disappears. Therefore, if we seek to increase the
demand or desire, we must decrease or delay satisfying the desires of our prospects. We must sell
fewer units than we otherwise can. Let that sit with you for a second. Consider this example.
We promote some two-day workshop that is upcoming. First, we whisper that it's coming,
then we tease it with some benefits, then we shout that it's launching in a week. Then,
when we launch this amazing workshop, we have two supply-demand scenarios, scenario one. We sell
10 units at $500 each. Sell the entire pyramid of demand at a price that everyone says yes to.
Scenario two. We sell two one-day workshops, 101 for $5,000 each. We skim the top of that
pyramid with 80% of people not being able to purchase or choosing on two. It's worth noting that
each of these prospects have different buying thresholds. In my experience, demand for services
is non-linear. Instead, I found a man to be fractal, aka 80-20. In other words, one fifth of prospects
are willing to pay five times the price or more. In the example, I might have 10 people willing
to pay $500, but two of them willing to pay $5,000, so it would make more, have lower costs,
aka more profits, provide more value, and increase the demand in the remaining prospect-based by
selling fewer units. Think about how exclusive scenario one for scenario two would feel. Think about
all the people who would want to purchase but would not be able to. With this increase or decrease
their desire, it would increase it of course. On top of that, if people see that others who were
able to get in or loving it, it would further increase their desire. And the next time, they would
act with more urgency and be willing to pay more for the same thing than they originally did.
So now, in the aftermath of our second scenario, we would still have eight people who have unsatisfied
desire. This increases their desire further. And to boot, we now have new prospects who weren't in
the original pool and now want what we have. The next time we promote scenario two, we'd then
open up three spots at the same price and sell them all. Still leaving some prospects with
pent-up demand. This is a continuous theme. Conversely, if we were to promote scenario one again,
the $500 price point, we would probably sell fewer slots the second time around. Why? We have
no pent-up demand. All desire has been fulfilled. When you, quote, pull the trigger too early,
each successive instance we promote, we sell even fewer. Eventually, we run out of sufficient
demand to even make a single sale. This is the sad state many businesses find themselves in,
always trying to generate more demand to make another quick sale or mosey law. The longer you
delay the ask, the bigger the ask you can make, the longer the runway, the bigger the plane that
can take off. We must endeavor to keep our supply and satisfaction of desire under the demand
that we are able to generate. This maximizes profits and keeps desire ravenous in our customer base.
This is the real key to never going hungry. Summary points, the reason I titled this subsection,
delicate dance of desire is that supply and demand are inversely correlated in theory.
If you satisfy zero desire, aka provide zero supply, you will not make money, and eventually people
will leave feeling rejected. No, it takes much longer than you think. Conversely, if you satisfy
all the demand, you will kill your golden goose and not know where your next meal will come from.
Mastering supply and demand comes from the elegant dance between the two. If you sleep with your
significant other every day, they have less desire than if you haven't slept with them for a week.
We want the ravenous prospect, not merely the aroused. Therefore, understanding the interplay
between these variables is key to enhancing the offer and the amount of profits you will make over
time. Up to this point, we have covered all the things inside of your offer that can make it immune
to price comparison and transform regular services and products into things that people will find
a way to pay for. It would follow that the next variable that can make your offer more desirable
is how it is presented. In other words, the outside variables that position the product in your
prospect's mind. These forces are often more powerful than your core offer. In the next section,
enhancing your offer, I will show you how I, one, use scarcity to decrease supply to raise prices
and indirectly increase demand through perceived exclusiveness. Two, use urgency to increase
demand by decreasing the action threshold of a prospect. Three, use bonuses to increase demand
and increase perceived exclusivity. Four, use guarantees to increase demand by reversing risk.
Five, use names to restimulate demand and expand awareness of my offer to my target audience.
I will define each and give you examples on how to use them. We will use all of these variables
to enhance our offer and shift the demand curve in our favor, leaving our customers always wanting
for more. We will start by tactically stimulating fear of missing out aka FOMO through scarcity.
Hey guys, real quick, we have a physical copy and a Kindle version of this book. It's on Amazon
and that's for those of you who didn't know, it's available. If you like consuming
a multiple formats like I do, I'd recommend picking it up. I promise I'm not trying to break the
bank account here. I mean, it's available already for free on my on my podcast, but unfortunately,
they don't print books for free. So if that sounds good to you, go check it out on Amazon. If not,
keep an enjoy. Chapter 11, enhancing the offer, scarcity, sold out.
Scarcity is one of the most powerful and least understood forces to unlock unlimited pricing power.
If you want to learn how to sell air for millions of dollars, then pay attention.
The reason for an authority, like a doctor, a celebrity, like Oprah, or celebrity authority,
like Dr. Oz or Dr. Phil, can charge egregious rates is because of implied demand. People assume
that there's a lot of demand for their time, and therefore not a big supply of it.
As a result, it must be expensive. That being said, it's hard for most businesses to understand
what it's really like to have an uneven supply demand curve until you've experienced it.
I'm going to try and walk you through what it felt like for me for the first time I experienced
it in order to give you a taste of the power. When I got in this world of acquisition, I saw
mentors of mine selling days of time for $50,000 plus. My mind was blown for two reasons. First,
because I didn't understand how they could make so much money for a single day. Second, because I
didn't understand who in the right mind was buying it. Over time, I learned. I'll start with the
buyer. If I have a rare problem, and I must solve this problem for my own pursuit of happiness,
it will consume all of my attention. By the nature of my problem being specialized, there will be
very few people who can solve it. This means there is not a large supply of solvers. In many cases,
I will perceive only one possible solver. AKA supply equals one.
Beyond that, if solving this problem speeds up my achievement of a goal by a year or two,
or immediately results in me making hundreds of thousands of dollars or millions of dollars,
that solution becomes far more valuable. Does it not? Of course it does. And so, it would follow.
If I can pay someone $50,000 for a day of their time and see an increase of $500,000 per month
in revenue within three months because of the insights and strategies revealed, that would be a
however return on investment, right? So there are two components to value here. First, how rare
the sources are. Second, the actual value being provided. The value and rarity compound to create some
truly breathtaking profits. Specialized consultants are paid millions of dollars to solve problems
worth tens of millions to clients. The client pays for all the experience and expertise,
the expert has and avoids the cost of errors, time and money. In short, they skip the bad stuff and
go straight to the good stuff more quickly and for less money, they know it will cost to figure it
out on their own. A beautiful economic exchange. I personally experienced this for the first time
when I had two different people offer me $50,000 for a day of my time after speaking at an event.
They were scaling an education business in a niche, not too dissimilar from my own,
and could not get past the million dollar per month mark. As someone who was doing 1 million per
week in the same business type at the time, I was a very specific type of person with the keys to
their problem. So what happened, you ask? Drum roll? I didn't accept the offers. Why? Because I was
making more than $50,000 a day in profit in my business and didn't want the distraction.
Author note, it was years later that I started acquisition.com to help these very people,
but instead of charging a day rate, I simply became an equity holder in the company to completely
align interest for short and long term, and so I could see the implementations through. And as my
time is limited by the laws of physics, for everyone else below the $3,000,000 per year mark,
I make all these materials for free. After the event concluded and I was speaking with Leyla,
I realized how I had somehow become one of those people I had always wondered about.
It was very surreal for me. I finally understood how premium prices were truly made,
simple supply and demand. There's little that substitutes for incredible demand. You can try and
fake it, but there's a special type of zero fox given vibe that's hard to replicate when you truly
don't need a person's money or even want it. That's how these guys can charge so much because
they don't need it. The person who needs the exchange to last always has the upper hand.
I always try to remember that. It's one of the negotiating and pricing principles that is
best served me in my life. But Alex, how are you going to show me how to use scarcity to increase
the amount of people one by my offer when currently no one does? Great question. Let's attack some
real world in the trenches strategies to reliably create scarcity. Creating scarcity. When there's
a fixed supply or quantity of products or services that are available for purchase, it creates
scarcity or a fear of missing out. It increases the need to take action and buy extension,
purchase your offer. This is where you publicly share that you are only giving away
X amount of products or can only take Y new clients. For example, if a musician drops a limited
edition hoodie and says he only made a hundred and they will never be made again, are you more or
less likely to buy it than one that is always available? More likely, naturally. The idea that you
can never get it again makes it more desirable. This is an example of scarcity. It is the fear of
missing out on something. It pulls on our psychological fear of loss and gets us to take action.
Humans are far more motivated to take action to hoard a scarce resource than they are to act on
something that could help them. Fear of loss is stronger than desire for gain. We will wield
the psychological lever to get your clients to buy in a frenzy all at once until you are sold
out. Three types of scarcity. One, limited supply of seats or slots in general or over
experience of time. Two, limited supply of bonuses. Three, never available again. But how do you
use this properly without being phony? I'll try and give you some real world examples. Physical
products. Having limited releases is a tried and true method of using psychological bias to your
advantage. You can have limited releases for flavors, colors, designs, sizes, etc. This month,
we're releasing 100 boxes of mint chocolate cookie flavored protein bars. Important point.
To properly utilize this method, you should always sell out. Here's why. It's better to sell
it consistently than over order and fail at creating that scarcity. This method stacks in effectiveness
if it is done repeatedly over time, just not too often. Once a month seems to be the sweet spot for
most of the companies that I know who do this with regularity. Second important note. When using
this tactic, you must also let everyone know that you are sold out. That is part of what makes
it work so well. This way, even people who are on the fence, when they see that it was sold out,
gives them social proof that other people thought it was worth it. And now that the choice has been
made for them, they desire it more because there's no way they can get it. So the next time you
make the offer, they will be far more likely to take you up on it. Fun fact. Chanel, a brand that
has maintained insane margins and pricing for over a century is a master of scarcity. They send
only one to two of each piece to each store so every store has a different selection and every item
is the last or second-last item in stock. This allows them to price far above market and turn
buying impulses into purchases. Services. With services, especially if you want to consistently
get customers, it can be a little trickier to use scarcity. But I will show a few very simple
ways to employ scarcity ethically to increase your take right on offers. These all have similar
elements with very slight tweaks. I'm enumerating these because one of these might mentally fit
your business model more than others. Number one. Total business cap. Only accepting ex clients.
Only accepting ex clients at this level of service ongoing. This puts a cap on how many clients
you service but also keeps them in. You create a waiting list for new prospects. The moment your door
opens, they jump right in and price resistance disappears. Periodically, you can increase capacity by
10-20% than capital again. This works well for your highest tiers or service levels.
A. This is like saying, my agency only will service 25 customers total. Period. Over time,
you can increase your prices and squeeze the lower performing accounts out and bring in new more
profitable accounts. Or you can periodically open up slots as your capacity allows always leaving
some demand on met. Two. Growth rate cap. Only accepting ex clients per week ongoing. We only
accept five new clients per week. We already have the first three spots taken. I have six more
calls this week so you can either take the spot or one of my next calls can and you can wait until
we reopen. I have used this method since the beginning of my business. I always knew what my
capacity per week was and simply chose to let our prospects know how many openings we had left.
This banks on the fact that you can only handle a certain amount of new customers anyways
on a regular basis so you might as well let them know. Three. Cohort cap. Only accepting
ex clients per class or cohort. Similar to the above except on whatever cadence you desire.
Only accepting ex clients amounts per class or per cohort over a given period is another way
of thinking about it. Imagine you only start clients monthly or quarterly. This helps you get
some cadence to some place in your business operationally while also lying your sales team some
legitimate scarcity. Example we take on 100 clients four times a year we open the doors
then close them etc. Pro tip. Provide limited access for higher ticket services. These scarcity
tactics work especially well for higher ticket upsells. If you want to create one-off workshops
trainings events seminars consulting etc. These are the things that by their nature take time and
provide more access. Pairing them with the clear scarcity or fixed amounts seats or spots
will rapidly drive up to mid but always remember have less spots available than you think you can sell
so that when you want to do it again in the future everyone will remember you sold out fast.
This is a compounding strategy that increases in effectiveness over time one of the few in the
marketing arsenal. Let me give you a real world example of scarcity to enhance the value of a
free lead magnet. If I were to tell you right now that I have a checklist that you can download for
free that has all these materials for you in this book and bulleted format you might be inclined to
put this book down and go there to download it now. But if I told you I have it set so that every
week the page only allows 20 new people to download it you'd be far more likely to go and see if
you can grab it and even more so if when you try you see that it has already run out for the week.
Result you join a list that notifies you the next time 20 or more checklist become available for
download what happens next when you get that notification you'll hit the link on your phone
and you'll go to the page because you don't want to miss out again by employing scarcity we make
what would otherwise be a neat free download into a desirable thing that not everyone has access to
you also by extension would be far more likely to consume it when you do get your hands on it
all because of how we control supply cool right. Honest scarcity the most ethical scarcity the
easiest scarcity strategy is honesty wait what let me explain I'm sure right now you probably
couldn't handle a thousand clients tomorrow right but how many could you handle five ten twenty five
well you might as well define a number that you're willing to take on in a given period of time
and then advertise it simply letting people know that you are three fourths the way to capacity
this week will move people over the edge to buying from you or letting people know that you're 81
percent of capacity in your total business will make more people likely to sign up with you
quote before they lose the chance scarcity also implies within it social proof
if you are 81 percent of capacity then a decent amount of people made the decision to work with you
and the closer you get to your arbitrary fullness the faster the spots will disappear
but only you get to draw where that line is quote full neat right. Summary points
employ one or multiple methods of scarcity in your business you will drive a faster purchasing
decision from your prospects and at higher prices just let them know your limits and let psychology
do the rest now that we've covered some of my favorite scarcity tactics that you can use your
around what else do you do to increase demand without changing anything about your offer
increase urgency we will cover that next pro tip extreme scarcity if you don't hate money
sell a very limited supply of one-on-one access you can do that via any of the mediums described
in the delivery queue direct message access email access phone access voice memo access zoom access
etc there are lots of ways you can do this but i promise you this if you want to immediately make a
lot of money create a very exclusive service level based on access to you that you cap at a tiny
number price it very high then tell people you will make more money than you thought possible
these also tend to be some of the best clients and limit your delivery to something that you don't
hate for me i hate emails and messages but don't mind zoom calls make it work for your working style
the cream of the crop the 1% of the 1% will adjust and take action pro tip once you're out you can
never come back you can create scarcity by also capping your service level and saying that if they
leave they can never return this type of scarcity makes people think extra hard about leaving
i started doing this with my gyms early on then i was in a mastermind that employed this
then i started using it in my highest level at gym lords this works best with small groups like the
above example as groups become much bigger at the tactic loses some of its teeth speaking from
experience chapter 12 enhancing the offer urgency deadlines drive decisions
scarcity is a function of quantity urgency is a function of time this is where you only limit
when people can sign up rather than how many having a defined deadline or cut off or purchase
or action to occur creates urgency frequently scarcity and urgency are used together
but i will separate them out for you to illustrate the concepts i'm going to show you four of my
favorite ways of using urgency on a consistent basis ethically one rolling cohorts two rolling
seasonal urgency and three promotional or pricing urgency four exploding opportunity
they will employ urgency in your business without being phony my favorite way of doing this is
having cohorts of clients start on a regular cadence this has the added operational benefit of
helping you create a choreographed onboarding experience for new clients as you scale this will
become increasingly important number one cohort based rolling urgency for example if you start
clients every week even in unlimited amounts you can say if you sign up today i can get you in
with our next group that kicks off on monday otherwise you have to wait until our next kickoff day
if you want it to juice it up a little bit you could say i actually had a client who signed up a few
weeks ago drop out so i have an opening for our next cohort that kicks off on monday if you're pretty
sure you're going to do this sooner or later might as well get on in it now so you can start
reaping the benefits sooner rather than paying the same and waiting those two tweaks above
have pushed so many sales over the edge by just reminding a potential customer that if they
sign up they will be starting on monday and if they do not they will have to wait a week
it's small things like this that nudge people to take the action that they know they should
already take anyways obviously the less frequently you kick off new customers the more powerful
this is for example if you only start clients two times a year people will be very inclined to
sign up especially as the data approaches even starting new clients every other week can confer
this urgency nudge what if i lose sales by turning business away just like guarantees there's
always a fear that you will make less money by employing the strategy we are afraid that we will
lose sales that we would otherwise have made every experienced marketer on the planet will tell
you it is a fear and it is unfounded the biggest sales on a week long campaign or launch happened in
the last four hours of the last day up to 50 to 60 percent that means that the last three percent
of the time allotted creates 50 to 60 percent of the sales that's completely illogical but also
unmistakably human so just like a guarantee you will make more money from the many people who
decided to take action then people who already missed out because in reality those people were
never going to buy heck they didn't even buy when they had their feet to the fire so why would they
buy now good to remember what to do if you just started a coer and someone wants to buy you have two
options one you can offer them a speedy personalized onboarding to get them up to speed as a bonus
for signing up today and still get them in or my preference you can explain to them that since
the next group starts in a little they will have the advantage of having more time to review the
materials talk to their employees for a B2B product for example or families for a B2C product on
top of that they can have a more extended payment plan that you can only make available to them
since the start date is so far out and advantage that most clients do not get in the end remember
you always have the advantage because you are the one who calls the shots
two rolling seasonal urgency in a digital setting having actual signup date countdown is very
useful but make sure they are real if they aren't you'll lose credibility and just look like every
other want to be marketer this is very common with internet businesses that use launch models
I personally love having the dates that I am running a promotion throughout my landing pages
and in my copy I want it to be visible everywhere the nice thing is that you can always
fire up another ad campaign and a new landing page with new dates and be right as rain you will see
your conversions go up through the roof and it takes maybe five minutes of editing well worth the
time investment example our new year promotion ends January 30th next month our valentine state
lover promotion ends February 30th next month our sexy by spring special ends marked 31st next
month our fools in love April promo ends April 30th the actual promotion may be the same but naming
it something different by season gives you the real differentiator that gives you a start and
a finish deadlines drive decisions by simply having these you can point to them and let human
beings push themselves over the edge so as not to miss out pro tip for local businesses this is my
number one strategy for local businesses they must vary their marketing more frequently the
national advertisers putting a new wrapper with a date on the same core service gives you urgency
and novelty that will consistently outperform the same old campaigns three pricing or bonus based
urgency this is another way of creating urgency using your actual offer or promotion slash pricing
as the thing they could miss out on kind of brilliant it allows businesses that sell clients
you around to still use urgency for example yes let's get you started today so you can take
advantage of the discount you came in for I'm not sure how long will we running it as we change
them every four weeks or so and this is one of the better ones we've run in a while this creates
some fear of missing out on the promotion or discount or bonuses rather than your actual service
it would be a lie to say that if you own a roofing business you won't service them if they buy
after the day but if you talk specifically about the promotion you can often elicit the same urgency
on buying the prospect while maintaining your integrity win win you can interchange a pricing
promotion discount or added bonuses like free install or free onboarding or an extra workshop
valued at a thousand dollars if they buy now these are all things you can swap around your core
offer to create urgency pro tip clean your pipeline with every price change if you ever really
are planning on raising your prices hopefully soon if you're reading this book right now
then you can always clean out your pipeline by pet letting people know the price is going up so
get in now never raise your prices without letting people know it shows a position of strength
and will give you a nice little influx of cash from the people in the pipeline who are on the fence
four exploding opportunity on occasion you will be exposing the prospect to an arbitrage opportunity
the opportunity itself has a ticking time clock as all great opportunities do every second someone
delays they miss out on disproportionate gains example if I were explaining an arbitrage opportunity
between buying products on eBay and selling them on Amazon this market efficiency would correct
itself over time the sooner someone acts the better will be for them this could be true for selling
someone on the opportunity of trading cryptocurrencies buying a stock getting into a new platform to
advertise before competitors jump on the bandwagon or anything else like that highly competitive job
environments often get job offers that are exploding offers every day they wait to take the job
their pay or bonuses decrease this forces prospects to make fast decisions rather than try and
wait it out to see if they get a better offer all of these examples show opportunities that decay
with time so if you find yourself in front of an opportunity like this make sure to emphasize it
summary points adding a deadline and incorporating one or multiple forms of urgency will get more
people to take action than otherwise I have employed all four of these methods with great
effectiveness I suggest you do the same next up bonuses free gift number seven bonus tutorial
how to ethically use scarcity and urgency if you want to walk through some live ethical examples
of scarcity and urgency with me go to acquisition.com for slash training for slash offers and select
scarcity and urgency to watch a short video tutorial you'll also be able to grab my scarcity
and urgency check list that I use when creating offers as always it's absolutely free enjoy.
Hey guys hope you enjoyed scarcity and urgency and are already thinking about ways you can
use it in your business so you can sell more stuff to more people I have a visual course version of
this on my site acquisition.com for slash training it's absolutely free you don't even have to give
me your email it's purely yours and it comes with downloads and checklists and things that you
can immediately print out or just use on your computer just start executing this stuff in the
real world because at the end of the day if you don't do anything nothing is going to change and
next episode we're going to talk about two more offer enhancers bonuses and guarantees can't wait
to see you there by the way share this paper review that makes you an awesome person.
Acquisition.com volume one one hundred million dollar offers how to make offer so good people feel
stupid saying no written and performed by Alex Ramose copyright 2021 acquisition.com audio
production copyright 2021 acquisition.com
Hey guys, welcome to $100 million offers the audiobook special edition with the game
podcast.
Today, we're going over to chapters bonuses and guarantees bonuses are the thing that
you give on top of the thing you're already selling to get more people to want to buy it
at the same price.
And this is the best thing to do that I've ever had when someone says, Hey, can I have
a discount?
Instead of offering a discount, add more value.
And that's where bonuses come in guarantees are the single greatest way to overcome the
number on obstacle and sales, which is risk.
And so if you have intelligently structured original guarantee, you can unbelievably increase
your sales.
It's staggering when you do it right.
And I know for many of you this, these next two chapters may be the ones that really take
you over the edge and really change things for you.
So I hope you enjoy chapter 13 enhancing the offer bonuses.
It's all gravy baby play on an old English saying.
I have to give special thanks to Jason flatland for my renewed appreciation for bonuses.
They are so powerful that they earned an entire chapter in this chapter.
I'm going to cover what to offer, how to pick them, how to value them, how to present
them and how to price them.
The main point I want you to take away from this is that a single offer is less valuable
than the same offer broken into its component parts and stacked as bonuses, aka the entirety
of the offer we came up with at the end of the last section.
This section is about how to present those pieces in what order.
For example, I may in fact do lots of things with my service, but until I enumerate them,
they are unknown.
This is why every infomercial of all time continues with, but wait, there's more.
They would not use these techniques unless they were effective as every second of airtime
cost money and must be justified with ROI.
You'll also notice that if you watch those old infomercials, they would sell one knife
for $38.95 and then include 37 other knives, sharpeners, pans and guarantees to beat the
prospect into submission.
They established the price and then they expand upon it until you feel like it's such a
good deal, it would be stupid to pass it up.
The reason this works is that we are increasing the prospect's price to value discrepancy by
increasing the value delivered instead of cutting the price.
We anchor the price we tell them to the core offer.
Then with each increasingly valuable bonus, that discrepancy grows wider and wider until
it's too big to bear and we snap the rubber band in their mind that is holding their wallet
in their pocket.
We are now going to present that stack of deliverables that we assembled earlier in a way that
makes them irresistible.
Pro tip.
Add bonuses instead of discounting whenever possible on core offers.
Whenever trying to close a deal, never discount the main offer, it teaches your customers
that your prices are negotiable, which is terrible.
Adding bonuses to increase value to close the deal is far superior to cutting prices.
It puts you in a position of strength and goodwill rather than weakness.
Presenting bonuses 101 versus group selling.
There are key differences between pitching to a group versus a single person.
Group selling is beyond the scope of this book, but I want to at least address when a bonus
would be brought up in a 101 selling scenario.
When selling 101, you ask for the sale first before offering the bonuses.
If they say yes, then after they have signed up, you let them know the additional bonuses
they're going to get.
This creates a wow experience and reinforces their decision to buy.
On the other hand, if the person does not buy after the first ask, then you present a
bonus that matches their perceived obstacle, then ask again.
Don't feel weird about asking again.
You simply agree with the prospect, add the bonus, and then ask if this consolation was
fair enough.
People have a hard time rejecting reciprocity, so adding a bonus to accommodate than another,
than another, and people will feel almost obligated to buy from you.
If you recall from our Truman's DAC chapter, each of those deliverables is now being
weaponized and presented at the perfect time.
We're going to provide all these bonuses to them anyways, but it increases the perception
of our offer's value by laying these bonuses one at a time, bonus bullets.
That being said, there are a few key things to remember when offering bonuses.
One, always offer them.
You can use the bulleted bundle we came up with at the end of section 3.
Two, give them a special name that has a benefit in the title.
Three, tell them A, how it relates to their issue, B, what it is, C, high-discovered it,
what you had to do to create it, D, how it will specifically improve their lives, or
make their experience faster, easier, or less effort and sacrifice.
Just looking at the value equation.
Four, provide some proof.
This can be a stat, a past client, or personal experience to prove that this thing is valuable.
Five, paint a vivid mental image of what their life will be like assuming they have already
used it in our experiencing the benefits.
Six, always a scribe or price tag to them and justify it.
Tools and checklists are better than additional trainings.
As the effort and time are lower with the former so the value is higher.
The value equation still reigns supreme.
Eight, they should each address a specific concern or obstacle in the prospect's mind
about why they can't or won't be successful.
The bonus should prove their belief incorrect.
Nine, this can also be what they would logically realize they would need next.
You want to solve their next problem before they even encounter it.
Ten, the value of the bonus should eclipse the value of the core offer.
Psychologically, as you continue to add offers, it continues to expand the price to value
discrepancy. It also subconsciously communicates that the core offer must be valuable because if these
are the bonuses, the main thing has to be more valuable than bonuses, right?
No, but you can use the psychological bias to make your offer seem wildly compelling.
Eleven, you can further enhance the value of your bonuses by adding scarcity and urgency to
the bonuses themselves, which takes this technique and puts it on steroids.
A, bonuses with scarcity.
Version one, only people who sign up for my XYZ program will have access to my bonus
one, two, three that are never for sale or available anywhere else other than through this program.
Version two, I have three tickets left to my $5,000 virtual event.
If you buy this program, you can get one of those last three tickets as a bonus.
B, bonuses with urgency.
Version one, if you buy today, I will add in XYZ bonus that normally costs $1,000 for free,
and I'll do that because I want to reward action takers.
C, with hope, you can see the subtle differences.
The first two examples aren't constrained by time.
They state that if you buy the program, you will get the things you normally would not be able to.
The bonus with urgency is about them buying today, and if they do not buy today, they will lose
the bonuses, minor difference, but worth noting. Advanced level bonuses. Other people's products and
services. You can get other businesses to give you their services and products as a part of your
bonuses in exchange for exposure to your clients for free. This is free marketing for them,
and high value products for you at no cost. Businesses will do this because you are going to give
their business exposure for free to the highest quality prospects your customers.
As long as they are not direct competitors, you can get some brownie points, secure some future
referral IOUs, and make your offer more valuable at the same time. If you secure enough of these
relationships, you can literally justify your entire price in the savings and additional true
to price bonuses. For example, if I owned a pain clinic, I might get a massage therapist to give
me one to two free massages to incorporate into my offer. On top of that, I might get one,
a car practice to give me two free adjustments, valued at $100. A low-information food company
to give me discounts for the products, $50 savings, discounts for braces and orthotics, $150
a local health club down the streets give me personal training session for free in a free month
membership at their pool, $100 value, discounts on all pharmaceutical drugs from the local
pharmacist $100 per month in savings, repeat the above for multiple service providers,
so perhaps I get 10 car practice to give me a free adjustment. Now I have 10 adjustments in my
bundle, etc. Now if my offer were $400, then the value of these free bonuses alone is worth more
than the $400. As if that weren't already awesome enough, if you really want to be a Jedi,
negotiate a group discount and a commission for yourself. This is exactly what we did with our
supplement company. Our gym owner clients, who use our sister company, prestige labs,
sponsored athletes get 30% discount on all our products, and on top of that, the sponsored
athlete gets 40% of all sales netted after the applied discount, so it's a win-win for everyone.
Their clients get it for 30% less than our main site. They get paid for giving away exclusive
discounts and we get customers in exchange for commission paid. Everyone wins. If you're following
along, each of these bonuses can become revenue streams for you, indirectly, by getting clients to
say yes more easily, and directly because you can negotiate that each of these businesses can pay
you for the people you send their way. So let's say we negotiated the following affiliate commission
for making an introduction to these businesses. The car practice gives you $100 per person who comes
into their office. The food company gives you free food, orthotics company gives you $100 per
person referred. The health club gives you a free membership or $50 per month who signs up.
Pharmacy gives you $100 per person. Now let's look at how much money we made. Our $400
offer now has the possibility to make us an extra $350 of pure profit. That's the beauty of
these relationships. The other businesses will pay you and you don't have to do anything,
but refer customers to them that you already have spent the money to acquire. And if you really
want to get crazy, come up with a grand slam offer with these partners businesses by using the
same concepts in this book so that each of the bonuses themselves become even more valuable than
a simple commoditized service. Free gift number eight, bonus on bonuses. There are a million
and one ways to use bonuses in your offers. You can get people to act faster, you can price anchor
and product anchor, little known, you can get more people to say yes than you otherwise would.
And if you want a live deep dive with me, you can go to acquisition.com forward slash trading,
slash offers and select bonus creation to watch a short video tutorial. I also have a free bonus
checklist that I use when creating offers so you can swipe it and use it for your business on the
house summary. We want to employ bonuses because they expand the price to value discrepancy and
get people to purchase who otherwise wouldn't. They massively increase the prospect's perception
of the value of our offer. So here's what to do. One, create checklists, tools, swipe files,
scripts, templates and anything else that would take lots of time and effort to create on one's own,
but it's easy to use once created. Anything that you can invest in one time that clearly cost
time or money to create, but can be given away endless time is a perfect fit for bonuses.
Two, beyond that, make a habit to record every workshop, every webinar, every event,
every interview and use them as additional bonuses as needed to crush a perceived obstacle.
Three, proactively negotiate group discounts and a referral commission with adjacent businesses
that solve needs your customer will have as a result of beginning this process with you.
What's the next natural thing they might want? Go to those businesses,
get a deal for them they could never get for themselves because you were negotiating with
the purchasing power of all your customers at once. Very powerful. Author note, the longer you are
in business the more of these bonus assets you will have at your disposal. All of these things
are valuable. Put them in a vault and keep them in your back pocket to sprinkle into an offer
to get the deal closed. Information products work very well here because they have high perceived
value, low cost and zero operational effort besides an additional login. Take his to virtual
experience or events work too. Same goes for a higher level of service that has a fixed cost
like giving someone a VIP service for a month, which also by the way doubles as a way of
upselling them into that level of service to keep them on it more on that in book two.
Which should be a bonus versus part of the core offer if I am the one fulfilling it?
Short answer, wow factor. In other words, something you wouldn't want someone to miss.
Many times you have so much cool stuff they will be writing your customers which is a good thing
that valuable nuggets can get lost in the mix. You want to take the most distinct ones that
can almost stand on their own and pull those out to highlight them. This is especially true for
things that are short in length but high in quality or value. Checklists or infographics can
condense a lot of information into a small space. Someone might not feel justified paying lots of
money for a product launch map for example, but as a bonus will be perceived as very valuable.
Next up, we have our core offer. We are presenting it in a way to increase scarcity
and urgency to increase the likelihood that they want it even more. We stack the bonuses of
our offer to make the price to value discrepancy out of this world and break our prospect's minds.
Next on our magical journey, we will be addressing the big elephant in the room, risk.
We will completely obliterate it using a combination of guarantees so they have no reason not to buy.
Hey guys real quick, if you've been enjoying the $100 million offers series on the podcast,
if you could share it with a friend or leave a review, either one would mean a lot to me and
it would also make you an amazing human being. I took a year of my life to put into this and that
was just in the actual writing process. It took me years to put this information in a simple,
succinct manner so that people could understand it and so it would just mean a lot to me. That's
that's it. It's just an ask. It would mean a lot to me if you shared it. So that's all I got.
Enjoy the rest. Chapter 14. Enhancing the offer. Guarantees. You're
going to like the way you look. I guarantee it. Men's warehouse ad that ran forever. Guarantees
worth their weight in gold. The single greatest objection for any product or service being sold
is drum roll, risk. Risk that it doesn't do what it's supposed to do for them. Therefore,
reversing risk is an immediate way to make any offer more attractive. You will want to spend a
disproportionate amount of time figuring out how you want to reverse it. That being said,
how much more attractive can a guarantee make an offer? Jason Flatland, who I referenced earlier,
once stated that he had seen the conversion on an offer two to four X simply by changing the
quality of the guarantee. It's that important. From an overarching perspective, there are four types
of guarantees. Unconditional, conditional, anti-guarantee, and implied guarantees. You must always
hit your guarantee hard, even if you don't have one. Say it boldly and give the reason why.
But won't people take advantage of a crazy guarantee? Sometimes, but not usually. That being said,
you must understand the math. If you close 130% as many people, and your refund percentage doubles
from 5% to 10%. You've still made 1.23X the money, or 23% more, and that all goes to the bottom line.
Example, 100 sales with 5 refunds, which is 5% equals 95 net sales. The guarantee offer
might get 130 sales, 13 refunds, which would be 10% and net 117 sales. So 117 over 95 is
1.23X, or a 23% increase. Don't be emotional. Just do the math. For a guaranteed to not be worth it,
the increase in sales would have to be 100% offset by people who refund. So an absolute increase
in sales of 5% would need to be offset by an absolute increase in refunds of 5%. But that would
be a doubling of refunds, which is unlikely. So for the most part, the stronger the guarantee,
the higher the net increase in total purchases, even if the refund rate increases alongside it.
Warning, while guarantees can be effective sellers, people who buy because of guarantees
can become very shitty customers. A person who only buys because of a guarantee is a person
who may not be willing to put in the work necessary to see success with your product to service.
In a world where you want to reverse risk and get customers the best outcome,
tying your guarantee to the things they need to do to be successful can help all parties.
Pro tip. High cost services warning. If you have a tremendous amount of costs associated
with your product or service, you will likely want to employ conditional guarantee or anti-guarantee,
as you'll have to eat the cost of the refund and the cost of fulfilling.
Types of guarantees. If you don't achieve X in Y time, we will.
What makes a guarantee have power is a conditional statement. If you do not get X result in Y
period of time, we will see. To give a guarantee teeth, you have to decide what you'll do if they
don't get the result. Without the or what portion of the guarantee, it sounds weak and deluded.
Note, this is what most marketers do. Bad example. We will get you 20 clients guaranteed.
Better example. You will get 20 clients in your first 30 days or you will give your money back
plus your advertising dollars you spent with us. This is a simple but strong guarantee.
Here are the four types of guarantees. I'll go over them in theory and we'll apply them.
One, unconditional guarantees. As I stated earlier, they are unconditional,
conditional and anti-guarantees. Unconditional are the strongest guarantees.
They're basically a trial where they pay first and see if they like it. This gets a lot more
people to buy, but you will have some people refund, especially as consumer culture continues
to shift towards entitlement and zero accountability. Two, conditional guarantees.
Conditional guarantees include terms and conditions to the guarantee. These are the ones that you
can get very creative on. In general, you want these to be, quote, better than money back,
guarantees. Because if they're going to make an investment, you want to match their investments
psychologically with an equal or higher perceived commitment. These also can have a very powerful
effect on getting clients. If you know the key action someone's must take in order to be successful,
make those part of the conditional guarantee. In a perfect world, 100% of your customers would qualify
for conditional guarantee, but we'll have achieved their result and therefore would not want to take
it. That is an ideal we can all aspire towards. And just FYI, if given the option of getting a
refund or getting the outcome they were promised, the vast majority of people would take the outcome,
that's why they bought it in the first place. Three, anti-guarantees. Anti-guarantees are when
you explicitly state all sales are final. You will want to own this position. You must come up with
a creative, quote, reason why the sales are final. Typically, you want to show a massive exposure
or vulnerability on your part that a consumer could immediately understand and think, yes,
that makes sense. These types of guarantees are especially important with items that are
consumable or massively diminishing value once given. Four, implied guarantees.
Implied guarantees are any offer that is a performance-based offer. This comes in many different
forms, but have share, profit share, triggers, ratchets, monetary bonuses, etc. are all examples.
The end all concept is the same. If I don't perform, I don't get paid.
Unique to this particular structure is it also confers the upside of, if I do a great job,
I will be very well compensated. These only work in situations where you have transparency
for measuring the outcome and trust or control that you will get compensated when you perform.
Stacking guarantees. An experienced salesman understands that, like bonuses, you can actually
stack guarantees. For example, you could give an unconditional 30-day, no questions ask
guarantee, then on top of that, give a conditional triple your money back 90-day guarantee.
That would be an example of stacking unconditional with a conditional guarantee. You can also stack two
conditional guarantees around different or sequential outcomes. For example, you'll make $10,000
by 60 days, $30,000 by 90 days, as long as you do thing 1, 2, and 3. This future paces the prospect
into an outcome they now believe is far more likely, since you will be deliberately spelling it out
in a conditional guarantee with a timeline for achievement. Doing this shows the prospect
you are serious about getting the results and convinced they will achieve what they want.
This shifts the burden of risk back from them onto us, a very powerful strategy.
Let's go through some different guarantee examples. These are some of my favorites.
Guarantee. If you don't achieve X in Y time, we will insert offer. Unconditional, no questions
asked guarantee. What the client gets? A, a full refund, B, 50% refund, C, refund of ad spend,
or any ancillary cost. D, you pay for a competitor's program. E, you return their money plus any
additional money on top of it, like an extra $1,000. My take. This is about as simple as it gets.
It's also very risky. You put yourself in a situation where if someone does not achieve the
results, whether because of your fault or not, you will still be held accountable. Obviously,
this is a strong but unoriginal guarantee. You can add conditions, but the more conditions you add,
the faster this guarantee loses teeth. Wording. I heard Jason Flailein who I referenced earlier
pitches unconditional guarantee on a webinar, and I thought it was unbelievable. These are 100%
his words and not my own. I take no credit for this, but have included it for completeness.
I'm not asking you to side yes or no today. I'm asking you to make a fully informed decision.
That is all. The only way you can make a fully informed decision is on the inside, not the outside.
So you get on the inside and see if everything we say on this webinar is true and valuable to you.
Then, if it is, that's when you decide to keep it. If it's not for you, no hard feelings.
You will then, after signing up at XYZ URL, be able to make a fully informed decision that this
isn't for you. But you can't make the decision right now for the same reason you don't buy a house
without first looking at the inside of it and know this. Whether it's 29 minutes or 29 days from
now, if you ain't happy, I ain't happy for any reason whatsoever. If you want your money back,
you can get it because I want to keep your money if you're happy. All you have to do is go to
support at XYZ.com and tell us, give me your money and you got it. In short order,
our response times to any support request average 61 minutes over a 24-7 time period.
You can only make such a guarantee when you're confident that what you have is the real deal,
and I'm fairly confident when you sign up at URL, you're going to get exactly what you need to
benefit, right? Insert dream outcome. Pretty crazy guarantee. Pro tip, name your guarantee something
cool. If you're going to give a guarantee, spice it up. Instead of using satisfaction or some
other vanilla word, describe it more strongly. Generic example, bad. 30-day money back satisfaction
guarantee. Creative imagery example one. Good. In 30 days, if you wouldn't jump into
shark-infested waters to get our product back, we will return every dollar you pay.
Creative imagery example number two. Great. You'll get our infamous club of baby seal guarantee.
After 38 days of using our services, if you wouldn't club a baby seal to stay on as a customer,
you don't have to pay a penny. Unconditional satisfaction-based refund guarantee expanded on
from above. What decline gets? If at any time they're not satisfied with the level of service
they're receiving from you, they can request a refund at any time for the program. My take.
Believe it or not, this was my guarantee when I sold wireless programs.
Besides being an irresistible offer, I guarantee satisfaction. I used the strength of my guarantee
to close a lot of deals. Do you think I'd still be in business if I gave a crazy guarantee
like that and wasn't good at what I did? Now, I'm not guaranteeing you're going to hit this
goal in six weeks after all because I can't eat the food for you, but I am guaranteeing that you
will get $500 of the value and the service from us to support you. If you don't feel like we gave
you that level of service, I'll write you a check the day you tell me we suck. It works perfectly
with a best case worst case close. Best case, you get the body of your dreams and we give you all
your money towards staying with us to hit your long-term goal. Worst case, you tell me I suck, I write
you a check and you get six weeks of free training. Both options are risk-free, but the only thing guaranteed
not to help you is walking out of here today. If you're good at what you do, you can use a guarantee
like this to push a lot of people over the edge. That line that I just said made me a lot of money.
I had two people take me up on that refund out of 4,000 sales in three and a half years.
It's worth it. Satisfaction slash no questions asked is the highest form of guarantee.
It means we could do everything right and you could still ask for your money back.
As long as you know the math, you will typically make up for the refunds in spades with higher
and faster closing on the sales side, but you have to be good at fulfilling on your promises.
If not, steer clear. I believe this offer works much better in lower ticket situations.
It becomes very risky as you go into higher ticket services with higher cost of
fulfillment. Pro tip, unconditional versus conditional based on business type.
Bigger broader guarantees work better with lower ticket b2c businesses. Many people just won't
bother taking the time. The higher the ticket, the more business oriented it is, the more you will
want to steer towards specific guarantees that may or may not include refunds and may or may not
have conditions. Conditional outsized refund guarantee, what the client gets, double or triple
their money back or a no strings attached payment of XXX or another amount that's far more than
what they paid. My take, this is for when you sell something with high margins and this is a
guarantee to add with a consumption condition. That means that they must do a variety of things to
qualify for this guarantee. Jason Fledlein, who I mentioned earlier, did 27 million in a day,
recently used an amazing guarantee for a course you sold. He said, if you buy this course and
spend excellent advertising in your e-commerce store using the methods you're in and don't make
money, I will buy your store for me for $25,000. No questions asked. He claimed that an additional
$3 million in sales came from this crazy guarantee on a 2997 course. What's more, he only gave 10 of
those $25,000 refunds out. So the refund generated 2.75 million in extra sales. That's what a crazy
guarantee does for you. In general, a very strong guarantee like this will definitely drive more sales.
This really serves the purpose when you need a lot of stuff to be done by your prospect and
assuming those things are done, there's a low chance the result not being achieved. Sometimes
a guarantee like this can actually get clients better results on top. This guarantee will typically
outperform a traditional 30 day money back guarantee in terms of net conversions, sales minus refunds.
Conditional service guarantee, what the client gets. You keep working for them free of charge until
X is achieved. My take. This is probably my personal favorite guarantee of all time. It essentially
guarantees that they will achieve their goal, but it eliminates the element of time. You are never
at risk for losing the money. The guarantee is around the outcome. To add further flavor to it,
you can make this guarantee conditional on them doing key actions linked with the success. Setting up
a web page, attending calls, showing up to workouts, weighing in, reporting data, etc. Real talk.
Since I've been advising businesses to use this particular guarantee, I have yet to have a
single person say a client took them up on it. Realistically, if someone actually does everything
you ask them to do and doesn't achieve the result by the time you said, one of two things usually
happens. One, seeing your clients' commitment, you happily keep working with them until they achieve
the desired result. Two, it gets dropped. Your client is very likely close to the goal, which means
they're satisfied. Also, it's likely the sales conversation with the guarantee was months earlier.
What may have been important in the sales conversation is a distant memory now replaced by
their affection towards you and your business. Conditional, modified service guarantee. What the
client gets? You give them another, why long period of service or access to your product or services
free of charge. Generally, why should give them at least twice the duration? My take. This is
like the service guarantee, but it ties a specific duration to your extended work or involvement.
So instead of being on the hook forever, you're only on the hook for the additional why period of
time, I've seen it work magically and keep the business on the hook for a finite period of time,
which may be an easier place for you to start before doing an all-out service guarantee like the
above. Conditional credit-based guarantee. What the client gets? You give them back what they paid,
but in a credit towards any service you offer, my take. This is best used during an upsell process
to seal the deal on a service they are unsure they will like. They already like what they have,
and you're trying to sell them on more of that. Worst case, they can apply to the thing they
already like, so it maintains good will with the customer. Conditional personal service guarantee.
What the client gets? You personally work with them one-on-one free of charge until they reach
x-objective result. My take. This is absolutely one of the strongest guarantees in existence.
It's like a service guarantee on crack. You will definitely want to add conditions to this.
For example, they must respond back in 24 hours. They must use the products you tell them to. They
must xyz. Only if they do that will you keep working with them one-on-one. This is especially
powerful as you scale and become more edified as a business owner. Can you imagine for a
moment if one of my salespeople said, Alex will personally work with you until you offer converts.
Right. It would work. It would also be a nightmare. So I would probably put contingencies like
provided you've already spent $10,000 on your existing offer, using our offer structure.
The offer you ran was for lead generation and it was a free offer. These are things that would
make it unlikely to not succeed. If for some reason they hadn't with those stipulations in place,
I could probably fix their problem in 10 minutes just looking at it. Conditional.
Hotel plus airfare purse guarantee. What the client gets? If you don't receive value,
we will reimburse your product and your hotel and airfare. My take. This is technically a refund
of ancillary cost from our first example. I just love it a lot for workshops and in-person
experiences. Normally, the event would cost more than the hotel and airfare. So it's like adding
an extra $1,000 to a guarantee, but way more tangible. It's original enough that people like it.
Conditional wage payment guarantees. What the client gets? You offer to pay their hourly
rate, whatever that may be, if they don't find your call or session with them valuable. My take.
This is also an ancillary cost guarantee, just a very original one. If someone ever actually
asked for the wage payment, just ask them for their tax return and divided by $1,960,
aka the number of working hours at 40 hours a week per year. But no one asking for a refund
will actually do that. So you never actually have to give out one of these refunds,
like ever. Kind of cool. Conditional release of service guarantee. What the client gets?
You let them out of their contract free of charge. My take. This avoids a commitment or cancelation
fee. If you have a business that has enforceable commitments, contracts or clauses, this can be a
powerful guarantee. Better yet, if you're in a business that does not enforce your contracts,
then you have nothing to lose by adding this guarantee. Conditional delayed second payment
guarantee. What the client gets? You won't build them again until after they make or get their
first outcome. Example, lose your first five pounds, make your first sale, get to your website
live, etc. My take. I like this a lot, especially if you've a very systematized process for getting
the first result. It gets the prospect thinking in fact action terms and gets them moving.
It will also focus your team on activating your client. This is a great one when you know what
metric or action drives activation, aka a predicting indicator of long-term retention of a client.
I've successfully used this guarantee loads of times. Conditional first outcome guarantee.
What the client gets? You continue to pay their ancillary cost, add, spend, hotel, etc.
until they reach their first outcome. Example, example, if you don't make your first sale in
14 days, we will pay for your ad spend until you do. My take. Just like the delayed second payment,
just centered around a different cost. I personally like this setup a lot. It keeps everyone
focused on getting that first dollar over the bridge. Once that one comes across, the second comes
soon after. Anti-guarantee. All sales are final. What the client gets? Access to super-exclusive
very valuable service or product. Likely, this is a very powerful thing that once seen cannot be
unseen or once used cannot be taken away. Example, a line of code to improve your checkout experience
on a website. Once someone received the code, they could try and use it without paying you,
or a series of opening messages for picking up girls or opening sentences for messaging
called prospects. These are things that are very valuable, but incredibly easy to steal after
they've been seen or understood. My take. This can enhance the persuasiveness of a sale and the
value of the product or service. It essentially implies that the client is going to use it and
see an immense benefit thereby exposing the business to vulnerability. It acts as a damaging
admission. We have an all sales or final policy, but that is because our product is so exclusive
and so powerful that once it's used, it cannot be unused. Since it is so standard to have some
sort of guarantee, not having one is also attention-worthy. So instead of being wishy-washy,
lean into the fact that this thing works so well and is so easy to copy you must make all sales
final. They'll believe you even more if you take this position. We're going to show you our
proprietary process that we are using right now to generate leads in our business. Our funnels,
ads, metrics, etc. We're going to be exposing the inner workings of our business and as a result,
all sales are final. Note, strong reason why is needed here. Just make one up that sounds compelling.
The more you can show real exposure, the more effective this will be. Anti-guarantees can also
work very well with high-ticket products and services that require a lot of work or customization.
If you're the type of customer who needs a guarantee before taking a jump,
then you're not the type of person we want to work with. We want motivated self-starters who
can follow instructions are not looking for a way out before they even begin. If you're not
serious, don't buy it, but if you are, boy are you going to make a killing. From these examples,
you should get the idea. Implied Guarantees. Performance models, rev shares, and profit sharing.
Performance, A, only pay me xxx per sale, or yyy per show, or xx per pound lost.
Rev share, A, 10% of top-line revenue, 20% profit share, 25% of revenue growth from baseline.
Profit share, x% of profit, y% of gross profit, ratchets, 10% if over x, 20% if over y,
30% of over z, bonuses and triggers, I get x when y occurs.
With the client gets. If you do not perform, they do not have to pay. If you perform,
your compensation has been determined based on an agreement decided on before you begin working.
My take. Performance, rev share, and profit share aren't guarantees per se,
but for all intents and purposes they are. This is an implied guarantee whenever you enter
a rev share or performance partnership. If you don't make money, you don't have to pay me.
In my opinion, this is one of, if not the most desirable setups. First, because it makes
you accountable to your client's results. Second, it weeds out low performers. Perfect alignment
between client and service provider, fosters collaboration and a long-term relationship.
I'm a big fan. The drawbacks are tracking and collection. So if you can find a way around that,
you've hit a gold mine. This is a part of the offer we teach our agencies to use our software.
We help them switch from retainer model to a performance model and wrap that into a
grand slam offer the one I walked through earlier. I've seen countless agencies go from 20k
month to 200k month in a matter of a few months using this guarantee. You can also pair a rev share
or performance setup with a minimum. It would be like saying we get the greater of $1,000 or
10% of revenue generated. So if the client doesn't generate money because of whatever reason,
this at least covers your cost of services, etc. Or saying we get $1,000 for the first three months,
then after that it switches to 100% performance. This would be the ideal setup if it takes a long time
to get going. These types of offers work well when you have quantifiable outcomes. The stronger,
of course, is no payment without performance. Create your own winning guarantee. Reversing risk is
the number one way to increase conversion of an offer. Experience marketer spend as much time
crafting their guarantees as the deliverables themselves. It's that important. I have personally
used all the guarantees listed above except for the hotel and phone call one, which I just liked and
saw. But you can come up with your own. The key is to identify a client's biggest fear,
pain and perceived obstacle. What do they not want to have happened if they pay you? What are
they most afraid of? Reverse their fears into a guarantee. Think of time, emotion, outside cost
associated with any program. The more specific and creative the guarantee is, the better. That being
said, guarantees are enhancers. They can enhance the magnetism or attraction of any offer,
but they cannot make a business. If a guarantee is used to cover up a poor sales team or poor product,
it will backfired lots of refunds, no one. My advice. Start selling service-based guarantees
or setting up some sort of performance partnerships. This will make all sales finals so you have no
fear from refunds, and most importantly, it will commit you to your customer's results and keep
you honest. From there, either keep that guaranteeing scale, which is perfectly fine, or move up the
food chain to less restrictive guarantees to increase volume. We now have a core for belt and
guarantees chosen. Next up, now all we have to do is put a bow in this puppy and actually name it.
Naming an offer correctly determines how well you're advertising converts, how big of a response
you get from outbound emails, cold calls and texts, and how many inbound responses you get from
organic comments. It matters. That being said, I will show you how to generate unlimited names
or wrapping paper for your offer. That way, it never fatigues no matter how small your market may be.
This is the key to evergreen lead generation. Free gift number nine. Create a winning guarantee with
me. Guarantees can make or break businesses. They are like dynamite. They can be incredibly
powerful if in the hands of an expert. If you want to go to acquisition.com for a slash training,
for slash offers, and select creating guarantees to watch a short video tutorial so you can start
using this in your business to make more sales ASAP. I also made a free guarantee checklist for you to
use. It's absolutely free. You can go grab it. Lots of love. See you in the next chapter.
Hey guys, another free gift for you, and I hope you guys enjoy the bonuses and guarantees.
I have this as a full course with additional things and added context and visuals and slides
that I fully prepared. It took me a full day recording just to make the the course version of this
and it's available for free to you. No opt-in required. And for those of you who don't know it's coming
up next, I'll tell you what's coming up next. We go over naming execution and closing credits.
All right, execution is not terminator style. It's actually how to turn this real in the real world.
But the naming section is a sleeper. I think it's it's one of the big ones that
you can sometimes, I mean, this is going to sound crazy to you, but you can literally change the
cover or the image that you have for an offer that you're selling and 5x the amount of people who buy
it without changing anything about it. That's how important naming it the right way is and that's
where we're going to go over next episode.
Hey guys, welcome back to the last episode of $100 million offers we're covering three
chapters today naming execution and closing credits naming is going to be the biggest
heater here it is a dark horse it is one of the things that's useful for if you're a local
business if you're an e-commerce store if you're a software company if you sell services
or anything in between if you sell stuff to people naming it the right way we'll get
the right people to buy it the wrong people not to buy it and ultimately make you way
more money enjoy.
Chapter 14 enhancing the offer naming implicit egotism effect we are generally drawn
to the things and people that most resemble us magic headline formula like the tree that
falls in the forest that no one hears having a grand slam offer will not make you money
if no one finds out about it the goal must be that upon hearing about your offer your
ideal prospects are interested enough to take action naming it properly is an integral
part of this process here's an example say you see a free six week stress release challenge
and a float take center session while they may be the same thing just named differently
you're much more likely to respond to the first now here's the rub overtime offers fatigue
and in local markets they fatigue even faster why in a local market it cost relatively little
to reach an entire population on most platforms you can reach a thousand people for about
twenty dollars so if they're two hundred thousand people in your addressable area they do
it only cost you ten thousand dollars to reach all of them one time important disclaimer reaching
an audience one time in no way means an offers fatigue most people don't even notice an offer
the first mention that's why you need to create new creative videos and images and new hooks
stories and copy around the same offers you can still use offers for a long time but when we're
talking about years of use not months offers can eventually fatigue overtime you can
rename the offer to refresh it this one concept will get you leads forever I mean it so pay attention
we are not changing the actual offer we are only changing the wrapping paper if you've put
together a bundled offering you're still ultimately going to be doing the same things the work you do
the services you provide and the products you offer will remain unchanged as the name shifts
again we're simply changing the wrapper here's the simplest formula I've come up with for this
process magic headline formula m a g i c m for magnet a for avatar g for goal i for interval c for
container important not all these components are mandatory you will typically use three to five of
them in naming a programmer service if you can fit them all in great but it's likely the name will
become too long the shorter and punch you're the better so it's a balance between brevity and
specificity the only way to really know what works is to write the names out and test them
let's run through the components now author note marketing theory if you like understanding
the concepts behind my chosen m a g i c or magic formula each roughly translates to attention
for magnet discrimination for avatar purpose for goal timeline for interval and method for container
let's start with m make a magic reason why we start the name with a word or phrase that tells
people the reason why we are running this promotion i like to tell people think like a fraternity
party planner when i was in college we had a party once because a guy got his wisdom teeth removed
i say this to say the reason why can literally be anything it really doesn't matter so long as
you believe it and you can even make a joke of it like the fraternity example but this should
answer one or both of the following questions why are they making this great offer or why should
i respond to this offer what's in it for me examples free 88% off giveaway spring summer back to
school grand opening new management new building anniversary Halloween new year note i will discuss
how to monetize free and discount offers in volume three money models but having a promotion or
discount gives a good and strong reason why you can also cite the season or an occurrence
that will also give you a strong reason why for the promotion announce your avatar this component
calls out your ideal avatar who you are looking for and who you are not looking for as a client
you want to be as specific as possible but no more when in a local area the more local you can make
the headline the more will convert so don't do a city try and go to the sub market or hyper local
not Baltimore but Towson Maryland not Chicago but Hinsdale etc examples becaved dentists
rolling hill moms brick and mortar businesses salon owners retired athletes
Brooklyn busy executives etc give them a goal g this is where you articulate your prospect
stream outcome it can be a single word or phrase it can be an event of feeling an experience
or an outcome anything that would excite them the more specific and tangible the better examples
pain free celebrity smile first place never out of breath perfect product grand slam offer
little black dress double your profit first client high ticket seven figure hundred K etc i
indicate a time interval you're just letting people know the duration to expect here this gives
an example of how long your results will take to achieve note if you're making any sort of
quantifiable claim like income or weight loss most platforms will not approve this type of messaging
with a stated duration to achievement because it implies a guarantee it implies they're going to
get this outcome in a period of time which goes against many platform rules so don't give a quantifiable
outcome with the duration unless the platform allows it that being said a duration is a powerful
component of a grand slam offer and you should definitely use it anywhere you don't need to do with
compliance alternatively if the goal you help them with is not a claim per se then absolutely use
a time interval ten thousand dollars in ten days versus make your first sale in ten days examples
a minutes bb hours cc days dd weeks z months four hour twenty one day six week two minute three
month etc c complete with a container word the container word to note that this offer is a bundle
of lots of things put together it's a system it's something that can't be held up to a commoditized
alternative examples challenge blueprint bootcamp intensive incubator masterclass program detox
experience summit accelerator fast track shortcut sprint launch slingshot catapult explosion system
getaway meetup transformation mastermind game plan deep dive workshop comeback rebirth attack
assault reset solution hack cheat code liftoff etc pro tip find time to rhyme good rhymes sticking
peoples minds rhyme your program name to win the game google rhyming dictionary for an easy shortcut
note don't try and force it it's not a requirement it's just a nice to have example six pack fast
track five day book print sprint marriage thrive deep dive 12 week two putt shortcut 12 month no
debt reset celebrity butt shortcut get some ass masterclass just thought it was funny etc you get
the idea next pro tip alliteration alliteration is where you make all or most of the words start
with the same letter or sound an alternative approach to rhyming is to use alliteration when
you're naming your program this is easier for most people than rhyming again you don't need to rhyme
or literate don't force it but if you can I think it sounds better example make money masterclass
change your life challenge big booty bootcamp debt detox real estate reset life coach lift off
I might be weird but naming offers is one of my favorite parts of this process what I
want to highlight yet again is that your actual money model pricing and services will remain
largely unchanged changing the wrapper simply means changing the exterior perception of what
your grandson offer is below you'll find a few examples of named offers for different industries
wellness free six week lean by Halloween challenge 88% off 12 week bikini blueprint free 21 day
mommy makeover 60 minute make your friends jealous model hair system six weeks stress release
challenge free bend over back pain free in 42 days healing fast track doctors $2,000 off celebrity
smile lightweight moms $1,500 off your kids braces lightweight moms 12 months to a perfect smile
$1,000 off for 15 families back to school free braces giveaway grand opening free x-ray
and treatment instantly back sword no more 90 day rapid healing intensive 81% off tightness
$1 massage new client summer special coaching five clients in five days blueprint seven figure
agency 12 week intensive 14 day find your perfect product launch fill your gym in 30 days free
I keep listing these but hopefully you get the idea now it's time for you to give it a try
for your grand slam offer again you don't necessarily have to use all the power components of the
headline using three to five will typically create something that is more unique and desirable
allowing you to separate yourself from the competitive field and create an offer that will get
clicks and engagement and ultimately make you money furthermore you don't need to do them in the
magic order do what sounds punch you to you after doing this for a while you'll see that some
offers convert better than others that's natural at every once in a while you'll get a name that
takes off like a rocket I honestly have no idea why some names win another's do not so don't be
emotional about it keep trying keep striking out then try more you'll get there now that you have
several working names for your offer you can use two or three of your best names in your advertising
campaign quickly note the winner then use that as a control to test against with new names that
is how you promote pro tip name sub items and bonuses use the magic headline formula for each item
in your stack and bundle will automatically enhance the value of your offering simply by naming
it in a way that resonates with your prospects what happens when offers fatigue
as you market offers you will need to create variations over time as the taste of the market change
over time here's the order in which you will change things to keep lead flow consistent first change
the creative the images and pictures in your ads next after that doesn't work change the body
copy of your ads itself if that doesn't work change the headline or the wrapper of your offer
so free six week lean down challenge turns into free six week tone challenge or
holiday hangover to new year new you if that doesn't work change the duration of your offer
if that doesn't work change the enhance of your offer your free or discount component
six if that doesn't work change the entire monetization structure the series of offers you give
prospects and the price points associated with them that is much more covered in book two and three
I follow this variation framework because most of the time it's the first handful of items
they need to be changed typically they need to be changed again and again without touching anything
on the bottom of the list for example when ads fatigue we don't change our entire business
we run the same ad again with a different video or image once that stops working we change it again
eventually you need to change the words in your ads and repeat the process then and only then
would you change the wrapper so let's say we change from a six week stress release challenge to a 42
day relaxing holidays challenge for massage center same core offer just a different wrapper then
of course you can change the duration of your offer six week to 28 days or eight weeks etc the
lower on the list you go the more operationally heavy it is so we really sure you've exhausted the
earlier quote lighter ways of varying the offer once you've monetized the offer rarely should you
change it just rinse and repeat over and over again this can be hard because we are entrepreneurs
and we love change change here usually just creates inefficiency and operational drag costing you
money no bueno so use your entrepreneurial ADD on the wrapper first the look and feel of the offer
copy creative headlines then change the seasonality of the offer then change the duration if you're stuck
change what you're giving away for free or discounted change the entire machine behind it only has
a last resort and for darn good reason especially once you get traction but how do you get initial
traction good question try the offer structure and headline you think has the highest likelihood
of working then stick with it and if it doesn't convert it first don't worry you'll get better
oftentimes if you're using these types of models many of them will work in that case stick with
the one that gives you the highest return you can also rotate between offers if it doesn't create
lots of operational drag for your business this is the ultimate position of power you have multiple
aces in the hole that you can play at any time which keeps your marketing converting at an even
higher level author note marketing for local businesses ironically local business marketing is
both easier and harder than national level marketing it's easier to get to work but harder to keep
working your scale and the reason is in local markets it's easier because there's trust in the
familiar so selling in person at higher prices in a local market is inherently easier it means you
will convert a much higher percentage of your leads this makes marketing work most of the time the
downside of local marketing is that offers fatigue rapidly because there's only a limited radius
that a local business can serve to reference an earlier concept the tam total just a market for
brick and mortar is only its immediate radius most times so by extension the small radius the faster
the offer fatigues this is a double edge sort of local learning to rapidly vary my offers headlines
and creative when I had my local businesses was a cornerstone skill that made my expansion to a
national level advertising much easier for me so if you are in a local market just remember you
aren't going to change the value stack of your offer you're just going to change the way it looks
to the marketplace in your marketing naming summary we must appropriately name or offer to
attract the right avatar to our business true to the moniker people do judge a book by its cover
half as naming your product or offering can ruin its conversions don't fall victim to lazy naming
follow the steps here to name your product or service offering and watch the same offer get two
times three times or ten times the response rate you'll believe it when you see it I know I did
enhancing your offer section recap congrats you figured out how to make your offer valuable
how to break your services into component parts and how to rebundle them into more valuable whole
you added a guarantee to get more people to buy your offer and actually consume it so they could
be more successful you presented it with urgency and security to get more people to desire it
and now you've named your offer so to tracks the right prospects and repels the bad ones
all while containing a big promise everyone can understand but we covered a lot
so I want to give you a quick breather before we forge into book two to help you attract clients
and monetize your offer free gift number 10 bonus create the perfect name for your product naming
your product properly helps your avatar know the product is for them and is valuable and we'll
solve their problems if you want to do this live with me go to acquisition.com for slash training
for slash offers and select naming products to watch a short video tutorial so you can start
using this in your business to make more sales asap I also made a free naming formula checklist
free to use and reuse with your team it also works for naming promotions as always it's absolutely
free enjoy. Hey guys last call on the 100 million dollar physical copies and Kindle this is on
Amazon you can go and find them there if this has been useful for you and you want to have additional
formats that you can have in your office to remind you to keep value at the top of your mind or
have something to reference for me I like having notes and highlights and things that I can
always flip to immediately without worrying about the Wi-Fi or trying to scroll through things or
or let something load or trying to search for a thing I just like having it available for me so
if you're like me you know go to Amazon grab a copy if not enjoy the rest of the last episode.
Section 5 execution how to make this happen in the real world chapter 16 your first 100,000
the first 100,000 is a bitch but you got to do it I don't care what you have to do if it means
walking everywhere and not eating anything that wasn't purchased with a coupon find a way to get
your hands on a hundred grand after that you can ease off the gas a little bit Charlie Munger vice
chairman Berkshire Hathaway March 2017 my heart was racing I could literally feel each beat pounding
into my chest I clinched my jaw to fend off the knot in my throat that I knew would lead to tears
I wanted to give in years of emotions were bottled below the surface years of ignoring my
reality and lack of success years of putting off how I felt just focusing on moving forward the
pressure was shooting to the surface I could feel it we did it I said Leila my wife now looked
up at me she was in the kitchen making dinner and stopped spatula in hand what do you mean we did
it we hit out her grand I could barely say the words because I didn't want the tears to break
through the tremble in my voice I grab a new no like in our personal bank accounts holy shit really
that's amazing she ran over to me disregarding the food on the stove and wrapped her arms around
my neck spatula still in hand I'm so proud of you she squeezed me I slumped into her arms it was
like every knot in my body that I had been holding onto melted all at once I could barely contain
myself but when I think back to it the feeling I had wasn't happiness was relief I'd moved from
fear to security I traded feeling like a failure every day watching my work and effort yield nothing
to realizing a dream the constant anxiety and fear of what are we gonna do finally replaced by
something else I finally had time to let myself feel something I felt like this struggle chapter
of my life was finally over look I said it's for real I knelted my head out of Leila's arms
I didn't want to look her in the eyes because I knew it would put me over the edge I pulled my
phone out and put it between us we both stared at the unmoving screen with our personal bank account
balance 101 thousand eighteen dollars our gaze remained unbroken as it confirmed our new shared
reality it wasn't an illusion it wasn't revenue it wasn't profit that was still in the business
account only to be taken out later by some unforeseen emergency it wasn't earmarked money
that had to be used to pay off some debt it was ours it was real babe we could fuck up and
not make another dollar for three straight years and still be okay at the time 33 thousand
dollars per year was more than enough for us to live on at our current expenses for three years
and some years of ups and downs years of plowing money into my businesses only to watch it vanish
in overhead payroll and mistakes years of seminars courses workshops coaching programs masterminds
had finally turned into wealth it felt like I had broken into a new plane the relative increase
in wealth was more than I have ever felt tens of millions of dollars in the bank later it was
and still is the richest I have ever felt in my life it was the beginning of the next chapter
of my life as a business person an entrepreneur some people get there fast some people get
there slowly but everyone gets there eventually as long as you don't give up keep moving forward
keep getting up keep leaving it can happen and it will in a nutshell we've covered a lot
and I think it's important for information to sink in that it be consolidated and restated
so this is the back of the napkin bullet list to summarize what we've learned so far and why
one we covered why you must not be a commodity in this marketplace two why should pick a normal
or growing market and why niches get you riches three why should charge a lot of money
four how to charge a lot of money using the four core value drivers five how to create your value
offer in five steps six how to stack the value deliver it and make it profitable seven how to
shift the demand curve in your favor using scarcity eight how do you use urgency to decrease the
action threshold of buyers nine how to strategically use bonuses to increase the demand of your offer
ten how to completely reverse buyer risk with a creative guarantee
and eleven how to name it in a way that resonates with your avatar you now have a valuable
high margin decommoditized to grand slam offer this is the first building block of a wonderful
business a product or service that people desperately want and truly solves their problem
for many this will be enough to make far more sales at higher prices with more profit your first
true grand slam offer should be able to get you to your first hundred grand for others you will
still want more which is one hundred percent your right as a capitalist there's so much more to
building an acquisition machine profitably I could not cover it all in one book out of respect for
you I wanted to make this thorough but manageable that being said the next book is dedicated to
exactly that getting more through generating leads in that book I will break down exactly how to
acquire customers at a profit meaning if you structure promotions properly you should never have
to pay for a new customer again and that is the subject of acquisition volume two one hundred
million dollar lead generation final thoughts entrepreneurship is about acquiring skills beliefs
and character traits to advance I find that we must determine which skills beliefs and character
traits we lack most times we simply need to improve the only way to do that is through learning
from experience and or high quality sources I've received terrible advice from people who are ahead
of me at a time and though experiences the best teacher she is not the kindest it is my most sincere
hope that what I produce provides the guidance I so desperately needed when I was coming up on my
entrepreneurial journey and I wish I could cover it all in a single book for my sake and yours
but to do you the service I wish I had I cannot the devil is in the details excellence exists in
the depths of knowledge and nuances that's what separates the greats from everyone else I hope
that in all the content I produce you see my dedication to this detail and nuance that makes
all the difference these lessons were hard one I hope you enjoyed the first volume in my hundred
million dollar series before we move forward into volume two what would be focusing on lead generation
as mentioned above I want to circle back to where we started after reading this book I hope one
you're well on your way to creating your first grand sign offer or at the very least can take components
of that you were missing in your offer to make it more compelling to your market I also that I've
delivered on my promise from the beginning of this book that investing two to three hours of your time
here would yield you a far higher return than just about anything else you could do and thirdly
I hope in return I've taken one small step turning the thing that I value most from you
your trust finally I hope this book creates a small dent in improving the world because I believe
known as coming to save us it's up to us as entrepreneurs to innovate our way into a better world
and that's something I'm willing to vote my life to and I hope you are too I'm grateful for your
attention you could have given it to anything and you chose to invest it with me I take that in the
highest regard so sincerely thank you stay hungry Alex ps see the golden ticket below golden ticket
admit one if you're doing three million to fifty million dollars per year and you'd like my help
one on one scaling your business go to acquisition.com specifically we help service education training
consulting brick and mortar or niche licensing companies scale so profitably they only have to get
rich once I'm not the make your first dollar guy I'm the make the last dollar you'll ever need to
make guy if that sounds like you you're savvy enough to figure out how to get ahold of me on my
side in book of call would love to meet you and hear about how your business is working and see if
we can help and hopefully invest and watch you grow would you be opposed to growing faster if not
you can check out my next book aptly named acquisition.com volume two lead generation which covers
you guessed it lead generation you'll never run out of new customers if you fall the steps in that
book especially now armed with the offer we have built not sure if that's the final name it's
still in edits but if you search for my name you'll probably find it you'll also likely find it
on my site acquisition.com next audiobook if you like listening and having all your books with
you to reference that's what I do you can grab the Kindle version or the alternative version of
any or all of my books on Amazon I like reading and listening at the same time to increase my
absorption and consumption speeds just search for the book titles and they'll come up podcast if
you like listening I have a podcast called the game where you can tune in to short episodes that
deliver tactical lessons learned from failures so you can get to your goals faster check out the
podcast here Alex's podcast.com YouTube I have a YouTube channel with fresh tutorials a few times
a week you can just search my name Alex Ramozi to find it. Instagram you can follow me Instagram
if you like the more personal stuff at Ramozi. The end acquisition.com volume one 100 million
dollar offers how to make offers so good people feel stupid saying no written and performed by
Alex Ramozi copyright 2021 acquisition.com audio production copyright 2021 acquisition.com
Hey guys I hope you enjoyed this magical journey with me of 100 million dollar offers a lot of
love into this book and I hope you guys could feel it from what you hopefully consumed over the last
six or seven episodes with me. I just wanted to let you know that we also have 100 million dollar
leads available on audio for free and it should be starting I think right after this episode if not
you can probably search it online and find it but either way it has been my absolute pleasure to
serve you and if this whole book provided you any value if you could take 60 seconds to leave it
a review it would help somebody else find it too and hopefully provide value to them if it didn't
earn those 60 seconds then by all means don't don't do it but if it did earn the 60 seconds from
you it would it would just it would just mean a lot so thank you guys you guys are amazing and I
can't wait to see the success stories of what you use and what you do from 100 million dollar offers
and if you're listening if you're gonna be tuning into 100 million dollar leads I will be seeing you
in just a moment.
