Hey guys welcome to the special collaboration between the game podcast and
$100 million offers the audio book. Today we're going to talk about offer
enhancers, specifically scarcity and urgency. First off, the difference between
the two. Second off, the ethical ways of using them in business and the
unethical ways of using it, which I highly don't recommend long-term. You'll
lose money. So definitely use the right way and make more money. That seems
like the best thing to do. I hope you guys enjoy and hey if this podcast has
been useful to you, share it with a friend. You know, I took a year to write this
book and it took me two days to record this audio book for you guys. If it
takes you 15 seconds to click share on this and send it to a friend or share it
on your stories, it would mean the world to me and it might even mean the world
to someone else. Section 4. Enhancing your offer.
Scarcity, urgency, bonuses, guarantees and naming. But wait, there's more. If you
ordered today, every infomercial in the 90s. May 2019 Arnold Schwarzenegger's
home after school all stars fundraiser. The line of cars outside Arnold's house
was around the corner and we were in one of them. We were sitting in our Uber
when a security guard with an earpiece, black suit and black sunglasses
knocked on the driver's window. It was like straight out of a movie. The driver
rolled down the window. Name, Alex and Laila Hermosi. He scanned the list on his
clipboard, nodded, then checked off our names. Great, he said. His demeanor
transformed from stern to inviting. Welcome to the fundraiser. Stay in this
line. You'll make a left, then security will escort you the rest of the way. The
security guard talked into his walkie-talkie to the next post down the road.
Signalling our car was approved. Pulling in front of the estate was like entering a
bond movie. Lamborghinis, Bugatti's, Ferraris and brands of cars that are too
expensive to even speak of. Old guys with young, scan-ally-clad girls,
eyeless actors, celebrities with millions of followers who were recording
themselves as they arrived, talking to their iPhones to their audiences and us.
The fundraiser was 25,000 per ticket to attend with an invite list of only 100.
There was a red carpet in all. Every year the fundraiser culminated in a big
auction for memorabilia and items some of the business owners in the audience
gave away for charity. We walked around looking at the entertainment stations
purposely devised to get donors in the giving mode. We saw $10,000 scotches,
$500 cigars, pre-released items for major brands that wouldn't be available
to the public until months later. And of course, the most expensive cuisine you
could imagine. Laylin and I were just soaking it all in. It was a wonderful
night. We definitely felt like cool kids. Ben, the CEO of the charity, saw
us looking lost and walked over. He took me by the arm and introduced me to some
of the other donors. These were all men who were older than me donating
$100,000 an up without a second thought. The man he introduced me to was one of
the charity's biggest donors. He had built an ultra high in jewelry and watch
business. I'm talking $100,500, $2 million plus rare status symbols that people
buy only so other 0.001%ers know they belong. He had donated upwards of 700,000
in merchandise as prizes for the fundraiser that evening.
Alex and Layla meet George, Ben said. He's been very generous with his time and
money to the cause. George, this is Alex and Layla. They're donating a
million dollars tonight to afterschool stars. I figured you are both good
people and wanted to connect you to. Nice to meet you. George said with
calm and weathered eyes. He was in his late 60s tall and
sturdily built. He adheres Eastern block origins in his accent. He sounded like
a man who had fought tooth and nail to be here, but had softened his demeanor for
gathering such as these. But the tiger with a teeth and claws remained
under the surface ready to be called upon at a moment's notice.
I felt like I understood this guy. Ben broke the ice. So, George was the one who got
me to raise the price from $15,000 per ticket to $25,000.
We had more demand than ever this year, but I took his advice. I cut the amount
of tickets we sold and raised the prices. That's right, George said.
Content that his stage business advice had been followed. When demand increases,
cut supply. He perked up slightly because we started talking about money.
This man had built his business from nothing and had found ways to sell things for
extraordinary profits by understanding human psychology. I had long learned about
supply and demand, but this guy was using its psychological underpinnings to fuel
a fundraising. You could take the tiger out of the jungle, but not the jungle out of the tiger.
People want what they can't have. People want what other people want.
People want things only a select few have access to. He was dead right.
They had raised an extra $1 million that night before the event had even started by cutting
the supply of tickets and raising the prices. On top of that, all the people were more qualified
than ever to be big donors. The night ended being of the most successful night in the
charity's history, raising nearly $5.4 million from only 100 people. That's $5,400 a head.
Each of the items was auctioned off as a one-of-a-kind item, and if you missed it,
you'd never have a chance to buy it again. Aren't we even threw in some bonuses
when two people would get high enough in the bidding, allowing the charity to get both donations?
It was a masterful display of human psychology at work in a setting where people knowingly overpaid
for products. The products remained unchanged, yet within this setting, an item that wouldn't sell
at a different venue for $10,000 sold for $100,000. That's how powerful scarcity, urgency,
and bonuses are, and breaking down how to use them to further increase demand for your offer
without changing your offer is the purpose of this section. Author note. Other persuasion powers
at play. Scarsity, urgency, bonuses, and guarantees were not the only persuasion tools being employed
to get egregious prices at the fundraiser. They also used commitment and consistency,
status, peer pressure, goodwill, celebrity endorsements, competition, etc. However,
scarcity, urgency, bonuses, and guarantees are the four that I'll be breaking down in this book
as I believe they are the ones that belong with the offer and less with the actual selling,
which I will talk about more in depth in acquisition volume 4, $100 million sales.
The delicate dance of desire.
Pictured in the book is a supply and demand curve. Fundamentally, all marketing exist to
influence the supply and demand curve. We artificially increased the demand for our products and services
through some sort of persuasive communication. When we increase the demand, we can sell more units.
When we decrease the supply, we can sell those units for more money. The perfect profit combination
is lots of demand and very little supply or perceived supply. The process of enhancing your offer
is designed to do both of these things. Increased demand and decreased perceived supply,
you can sell the same products for more money than you otherwise could and in higher volumes than
you otherwise would over a long enough time horizon. The new supply demand curve.
Pictured in the book is the group that has been shifted to the right by bonuses,
scarcity, urgency, guarantees, and naming so that you can get more units sold at higher prices.
Author note, this assumes a regular business who is not trying to gain mass market penetration
for some other strategic advantage. Desire comes from not getting what you want. In fact,
I heard this quote that I love from Naval Robocon. Desire is a contract you make with yourself
to be unhappy until you get what you want. It follows, therefore, that we only want things we do not have.
As soon as we have them, our desire for them disappears. Therefore, if we seek to increase the
demand or desire, we must decrease or delay satisfying the desires of our prospects. We must sell
fewer units than we otherwise can. Let that sit with you for a second. Consider this example.
We promote some two-day workshop that is upcoming. First, we whisper that it's coming,
then we tease it with some benefits, then we shout that it's launching in a week. Then,
when we launch this amazing workshop, we have two supply-demand scenarios, scenario one. We sell
10 units at $500 each. Sell the entire pyramid of demand at a price that everyone says yes to.
Scenario two. We sell two one-day workshops, 101 for $5,000 each. We skim the top of that
pyramid with 80% of people not being able to purchase or choosing on two. It's worth noting that
each of these prospects have different buying thresholds. In my experience, demand for services
is non-linear. Instead, I found a man to be fractal, aka 80-20. In other words, one fifth of prospects
are willing to pay five times the price or more. In the example, I might have 10 people willing
to pay $500, but two of them willing to pay $5,000, so it would make more, have lower costs,
aka more profits, provide more value, and increase the demand in the remaining prospect-based by
selling fewer units. Think about how exclusive scenario one for scenario two would feel. Think about
all the people who would want to purchase but would not be able to. With this increase or decrease
their desire, it would increase it of course. On top of that, if people see that others who were
able to get in or loving it, it would further increase their desire. And the next time, they would
act with more urgency and be willing to pay more for the same thing than they originally did.
So now, in the aftermath of our second scenario, we would still have eight people who have unsatisfied
desire. This increases their desire further. And to boot, we now have new prospects who weren't in
the original pool and now want what we have. The next time we promote scenario two, we'd then
open up three spots at the same price and sell them all. Still leaving some prospects with
pent-up demand. This is a continuous theme. Conversely, if we were to promote scenario one again,
the $500 price point, we would probably sell fewer slots the second time around. Why? We have
no pent-up demand. All desire has been fulfilled. When you, quote, pull the trigger too early,
each successive instance we promote, we sell even fewer. Eventually, we run out of sufficient
demand to even make a single sale. This is the sad state many businesses find themselves in,
always trying to generate more demand to make another quick sale or mosey law. The longer you
delay the ask, the bigger the ask you can make, the longer the runway, the bigger the plane that
can take off. We must endeavor to keep our supply and satisfaction of desire under the demand
that we are able to generate. This maximizes profits and keeps desire ravenous in our customer base.
This is the real key to never going hungry. Summary points, the reason I titled this subsection,
delicate dance of desire is that supply and demand are inversely correlated in theory.
If you satisfy zero desire, aka provide zero supply, you will not make money, and eventually people
will leave feeling rejected. No, it takes much longer than you think. Conversely, if you satisfy
all the demand, you will kill your golden goose and not know where your next meal will come from.
Mastering supply and demand comes from the elegant dance between the two. If you sleep with your
significant other every day, they have less desire than if you haven't slept with them for a week.
We want the ravenous prospect, not merely the aroused. Therefore, understanding the interplay
between these variables is key to enhancing the offer and the amount of profits you will make over
time. Up to this point, we have covered all the things inside of your offer that can make it immune
to price comparison and transform regular services and products into things that people will find
a way to pay for. It would follow that the next variable that can make your offer more desirable
is how it is presented. In other words, the outside variables that position the product in your
prospect's mind. These forces are often more powerful than your core offer. In the next section,
enhancing your offer, I will show you how I, one, use scarcity to decrease supply to raise prices
and indirectly increase demand through perceived exclusiveness. Two, use urgency to increase
demand by decreasing the action threshold of a prospect. Three, use bonuses to increase demand
and increase perceived exclusivity. Four, use guarantees to increase demand by reversing risk.
Five, use names to restimulate demand and expand awareness of my offer to my target audience.
I will define each and give you examples on how to use them. We will use all of these variables
to enhance our offer and shift the demand curve in our favor, leaving our customers always wanting
for more. We will start by tactically stimulating fear of missing out aka FOMO through scarcity.
Hey guys, real quick, we have a physical copy and a Kindle version of this book. It's on Amazon
and that's for those of you who didn't know, it's available. If you like consuming
a multiple formats like I do, I'd recommend picking it up. I promise I'm not trying to break the
bank account here. I mean, it's available already for free on my on my podcast, but unfortunately,
they don't print books for free. So if that sounds good to you, go check it out on Amazon. If not,
keep an enjoy. Chapter 11, enhancing the offer, scarcity, sold out.
Scarcity is one of the most powerful and least understood forces to unlock unlimited pricing power.
If you want to learn how to sell air for millions of dollars, then pay attention.
The reason for an authority, like a doctor, a celebrity, like Oprah, or celebrity authority,
like Dr. Oz or Dr. Phil, can charge egregious rates is because of implied demand. People assume
that there's a lot of demand for their time, and therefore not a big supply of it.
As a result, it must be expensive. That being said, it's hard for most businesses to understand
what it's really like to have an uneven supply demand curve until you've experienced it.
I'm going to try and walk you through what it felt like for me for the first time I experienced
it in order to give you a taste of the power. When I got in this world of acquisition, I saw
mentors of mine selling days of time for $50,000 plus. My mind was blown for two reasons. First,
because I didn't understand how they could make so much money for a single day. Second, because I
didn't understand who in the right mind was buying it. Over time, I learned. I'll start with the
buyer. If I have a rare problem, and I must solve this problem for my own pursuit of happiness,
it will consume all of my attention. By the nature of my problem being specialized, there will be
very few people who can solve it. This means there is not a large supply of solvers. In many cases,
I will perceive only one possible solver. AKA supply equals one.
Beyond that, if solving this problem speeds up my achievement of a goal by a year or two,
or immediately results in me making hundreds of thousands of dollars or millions of dollars,
that solution becomes far more valuable. Does it not? Of course it does. And so, it would follow.
If I can pay someone $50,000 for a day of their time and see an increase of $500,000 per month
in revenue within three months because of the insights and strategies revealed, that would be a
however return on investment, right? So there are two components to value here. First, how rare
the sources are. Second, the actual value being provided. The value and rarity compound to create some
truly breathtaking profits. Specialized consultants are paid millions of dollars to solve problems
worth tens of millions to clients. The client pays for all the experience and expertise,
the expert has and avoids the cost of errors, time and money. In short, they skip the bad stuff and
go straight to the good stuff more quickly and for less money, they know it will cost to figure it
out on their own. A beautiful economic exchange. I personally experienced this for the first time
when I had two different people offer me $50,000 for a day of my time after speaking at an event.
They were scaling an education business in a niche, not too dissimilar from my own,
and could not get past the million dollar per month mark. As someone who was doing 1 million per
week in the same business type at the time, I was a very specific type of person with the keys to
their problem. So what happened, you ask? Drum roll? I didn't accept the offers. Why? Because I was
making more than $50,000 a day in profit in my business and didn't want the distraction.
Author note, it was years later that I started acquisition.com to help these very people,
but instead of charging a day rate, I simply became an equity holder in the company to completely
align interest for short and long term, and so I could see the implementations through. And as my
time is limited by the laws of physics, for everyone else below the $3,000,000 per year mark,
I make all these materials for free. After the event concluded and I was speaking with Leyla,
I realized how I had somehow become one of those people I had always wondered about.
It was very surreal for me. I finally understood how premium prices were truly made,
simple supply and demand. There's little that substitutes for incredible demand. You can try and
fake it, but there's a special type of zero fox given vibe that's hard to replicate when you truly
don't need a person's money or even want it. That's how these guys can charge so much because
they don't need it. The person who needs the exchange to last always has the upper hand.
I always try to remember that. It's one of the negotiating and pricing principles that is
best served me in my life. But Alex, how are you going to show me how to use scarcity to increase
the amount of people one by my offer when currently no one does? Great question. Let's attack some
real world in the trenches strategies to reliably create scarcity. Creating scarcity. When there's
a fixed supply or quantity of products or services that are available for purchase, it creates
scarcity or a fear of missing out. It increases the need to take action and buy extension,
purchase your offer. This is where you publicly share that you are only giving away
X amount of products or can only take Y new clients. For example, if a musician drops a limited
edition hoodie and says he only made a hundred and they will never be made again, are you more or
less likely to buy it than one that is always available? More likely, naturally. The idea that you
can never get it again makes it more desirable. This is an example of scarcity. It is the fear of
missing out on something. It pulls on our psychological fear of loss and gets us to take action.
Humans are far more motivated to take action to hoard a scarce resource than they are to act on
something that could help them. Fear of loss is stronger than desire for gain. We will wield
the psychological lever to get your clients to buy in a frenzy all at once until you are sold
out. Three types of scarcity. One, limited supply of seats or slots in general or over
experience of time. Two, limited supply of bonuses. Three, never available again. But how do you
use this properly without being phony? I'll try and give you some real world examples. Physical
products. Having limited releases is a tried and true method of using psychological bias to your
advantage. You can have limited releases for flavors, colors, designs, sizes, etc. This month,
we're releasing 100 boxes of mint chocolate cookie flavored protein bars. Important point.
To properly utilize this method, you should always sell out. Here's why. It's better to sell
it consistently than over order and fail at creating that scarcity. This method stacks in effectiveness
if it is done repeatedly over time, just not too often. Once a month seems to be the sweet spot for
most of the companies that I know who do this with regularity. Second important note. When using
this tactic, you must also let everyone know that you are sold out. That is part of what makes
it work so well. This way, even people who are on the fence, when they see that it was sold out,
gives them social proof that other people thought it was worth it. And now that the choice has been
made for them, they desire it more because there's no way they can get it. So the next time you
make the offer, they will be far more likely to take you up on it. Fun fact. Chanel, a brand that
has maintained insane margins and pricing for over a century is a master of scarcity. They send
only one to two of each piece to each store so every store has a different selection and every item
is the last or second-last item in stock. This allows them to price far above market and turn
buying impulses into purchases. Services. With services, especially if you want to consistently
get customers, it can be a little trickier to use scarcity. But I will show a few very simple
ways to employ scarcity ethically to increase your take right on offers. These all have similar
elements with very slight tweaks. I'm enumerating these because one of these might mentally fit
your business model more than others. Number one. Total business cap. Only accepting ex clients.
Only accepting ex clients at this level of service ongoing. This puts a cap on how many clients
you service but also keeps them in. You create a waiting list for new prospects. The moment your door
opens, they jump right in and price resistance disappears. Periodically, you can increase capacity by
10-20% than capital again. This works well for your highest tiers or service levels.
A. This is like saying, my agency only will service 25 customers total. Period. Over time,
you can increase your prices and squeeze the lower performing accounts out and bring in new more
profitable accounts. Or you can periodically open up slots as your capacity allows always leaving
some demand on met. Two. Growth rate cap. Only accepting ex clients per week ongoing. We only
accept five new clients per week. We already have the first three spots taken. I have six more
calls this week so you can either take the spot or one of my next calls can and you can wait until
we reopen. I have used this method since the beginning of my business. I always knew what my
capacity per week was and simply chose to let our prospects know how many openings we had left.
This banks on the fact that you can only handle a certain amount of new customers anyways
on a regular basis so you might as well let them know. Three. Cohort cap. Only accepting
ex clients per class or cohort. Similar to the above except on whatever cadence you desire.
Only accepting ex clients amounts per class or per cohort over a given period is another way
of thinking about it. Imagine you only start clients monthly or quarterly. This helps you get
some cadence to some place in your business operationally while also lying your sales team some
legitimate scarcity. Example we take on 100 clients four times a year we open the doors
then close them etc. Pro tip. Provide limited access for higher ticket services. These scarcity
tactics work especially well for higher ticket upsells. If you want to create one-off workshops
trainings events seminars consulting etc. These are the things that by their nature take time and
provide more access. Pairing them with the clear scarcity or fixed amounts seats or spots
will rapidly drive up to mid but always remember have less spots available than you think you can sell
so that when you want to do it again in the future everyone will remember you sold out fast.
This is a compounding strategy that increases in effectiveness over time one of the few in the
marketing arsenal. Let me give you a real world example of scarcity to enhance the value of a
free lead magnet. If I were to tell you right now that I have a checklist that you can download for
free that has all these materials for you in this book and bulleted format you might be inclined to
put this book down and go there to download it now. But if I told you I have it set so that every
week the page only allows 20 new people to download it you'd be far more likely to go and see if
you can grab it and even more so if when you try you see that it has already run out for the week.
Result you join a list that notifies you the next time 20 or more checklist become available for
download what happens next when you get that notification you'll hit the link on your phone
and you'll go to the page because you don't want to miss out again by employing scarcity we make
what would otherwise be a neat free download into a desirable thing that not everyone has access to
you also by extension would be far more likely to consume it when you do get your hands on it
all because of how we control supply cool right. Honest scarcity the most ethical scarcity the
easiest scarcity strategy is honesty wait what let me explain I'm sure right now you probably
couldn't handle a thousand clients tomorrow right but how many could you handle five ten twenty five
well you might as well define a number that you're willing to take on in a given period of time
and then advertise it simply letting people know that you are three fourths the way to capacity
this week will move people over the edge to buying from you or letting people know that you're 81
percent of capacity in your total business will make more people likely to sign up with you
quote before they lose the chance scarcity also implies within it social proof
if you are 81 percent of capacity then a decent amount of people made the decision to work with you
and the closer you get to your arbitrary fullness the faster the spots will disappear
but only you get to draw where that line is quote full neat right. Summary points
employ one or multiple methods of scarcity in your business you will drive a faster purchasing
decision from your prospects and at higher prices just let them know your limits and let psychology
do the rest now that we've covered some of my favorite scarcity tactics that you can use your
around what else do you do to increase demand without changing anything about your offer
increase urgency we will cover that next pro tip extreme scarcity if you don't hate money
sell a very limited supply of one-on-one access you can do that via any of the mediums described
in the delivery queue direct message access email access phone access voice memo access zoom access
etc there are lots of ways you can do this but i promise you this if you want to immediately make a
lot of money create a very exclusive service level based on access to you that you cap at a tiny
number price it very high then tell people you will make more money than you thought possible
these also tend to be some of the best clients and limit your delivery to something that you don't
hate for me i hate emails and messages but don't mind zoom calls make it work for your working style
the cream of the crop the 1% of the 1% will adjust and take action pro tip once you're out you can
never come back you can create scarcity by also capping your service level and saying that if they
leave they can never return this type of scarcity makes people think extra hard about leaving
i started doing this with my gyms early on then i was in a mastermind that employed this
then i started using it in my highest level at gym lords this works best with small groups like the
above example as groups become much bigger at the tactic loses some of its teeth speaking from
experience chapter 12 enhancing the offer urgency deadlines drive decisions
scarcity is a function of quantity urgency is a function of time this is where you only limit
when people can sign up rather than how many having a defined deadline or cut off or purchase
or action to occur creates urgency frequently scarcity and urgency are used together
but i will separate them out for you to illustrate the concepts i'm going to show you four of my
favorite ways of using urgency on a consistent basis ethically one rolling cohorts two rolling
seasonal urgency and three promotional or pricing urgency four exploding opportunity
they will employ urgency in your business without being phony my favorite way of doing this is
having cohorts of clients start on a regular cadence this has the added operational benefit of
helping you create a choreographed onboarding experience for new clients as you scale this will
become increasingly important number one cohort based rolling urgency for example if you start
clients every week even in unlimited amounts you can say if you sign up today i can get you in
with our next group that kicks off on monday otherwise you have to wait until our next kickoff day
if you want it to juice it up a little bit you could say i actually had a client who signed up a few
weeks ago drop out so i have an opening for our next cohort that kicks off on monday if you're pretty
sure you're going to do this sooner or later might as well get on in it now so you can start
reaping the benefits sooner rather than paying the same and waiting those two tweaks above
have pushed so many sales over the edge by just reminding a potential customer that if they
sign up they will be starting on monday and if they do not they will have to wait a week
it's small things like this that nudge people to take the action that they know they should
already take anyways obviously the less frequently you kick off new customers the more powerful
this is for example if you only start clients two times a year people will be very inclined to
sign up especially as the data approaches even starting new clients every other week can confer
this urgency nudge what if i lose sales by turning business away just like guarantees there's
always a fear that you will make less money by employing the strategy we are afraid that we will
lose sales that we would otherwise have made every experienced marketer on the planet will tell
you it is a fear and it is unfounded the biggest sales on a week long campaign or launch happened in
the last four hours of the last day up to 50 to 60 percent that means that the last three percent
of the time allotted creates 50 to 60 percent of the sales that's completely illogical but also
unmistakably human so just like a guarantee you will make more money from the many people who
decided to take action then people who already missed out because in reality those people were
never going to buy heck they didn't even buy when they had their feet to the fire so why would they
buy now good to remember what to do if you just started a coer and someone wants to buy you have two
options one you can offer them a speedy personalized onboarding to get them up to speed as a bonus
for signing up today and still get them in or my preference you can explain to them that since
the next group starts in a little they will have the advantage of having more time to review the
materials talk to their employees for a B2B product for example or families for a B2C product on
top of that they can have a more extended payment plan that you can only make available to them
since the start date is so far out and advantage that most clients do not get in the end remember
you always have the advantage because you are the one who calls the shots
two rolling seasonal urgency in a digital setting having actual signup date countdown is very
useful but make sure they are real if they aren't you'll lose credibility and just look like every
other want to be marketer this is very common with internet businesses that use launch models
I personally love having the dates that I am running a promotion throughout my landing pages
and in my copy I want it to be visible everywhere the nice thing is that you can always
fire up another ad campaign and a new landing page with new dates and be right as rain you will see
your conversions go up through the roof and it takes maybe five minutes of editing well worth the
time investment example our new year promotion ends January 30th next month our valentine state
lover promotion ends February 30th next month our sexy by spring special ends marked 31st next
month our fools in love April promo ends April 30th the actual promotion may be the same but naming
it something different by season gives you the real differentiator that gives you a start and
a finish deadlines drive decisions by simply having these you can point to them and let human
beings push themselves over the edge so as not to miss out pro tip for local businesses this is my
number one strategy for local businesses they must vary their marketing more frequently the
national advertisers putting a new wrapper with a date on the same core service gives you urgency
and novelty that will consistently outperform the same old campaigns three pricing or bonus based
urgency this is another way of creating urgency using your actual offer or promotion slash pricing
as the thing they could miss out on kind of brilliant it allows businesses that sell clients
you around to still use urgency for example yes let's get you started today so you can take
advantage of the discount you came in for I'm not sure how long will we running it as we change
them every four weeks or so and this is one of the better ones we've run in a while this creates
some fear of missing out on the promotion or discount or bonuses rather than your actual service
it would be a lie to say that if you own a roofing business you won't service them if they buy
after the day but if you talk specifically about the promotion you can often elicit the same urgency
on buying the prospect while maintaining your integrity win win you can interchange a pricing
promotion discount or added bonuses like free install or free onboarding or an extra workshop
valued at a thousand dollars if they buy now these are all things you can swap around your core
offer to create urgency pro tip clean your pipeline with every price change if you ever really
are planning on raising your prices hopefully soon if you're reading this book right now
then you can always clean out your pipeline by pet letting people know the price is going up so
get in now never raise your prices without letting people know it shows a position of strength
and will give you a nice little influx of cash from the people in the pipeline who are on the fence
four exploding opportunity on occasion you will be exposing the prospect to an arbitrage opportunity
the opportunity itself has a ticking time clock as all great opportunities do every second someone
delays they miss out on disproportionate gains example if I were explaining an arbitrage opportunity
between buying products on eBay and selling them on Amazon this market efficiency would correct
itself over time the sooner someone acts the better will be for them this could be true for selling
someone on the opportunity of trading cryptocurrencies buying a stock getting into a new platform to
advertise before competitors jump on the bandwagon or anything else like that highly competitive job
environments often get job offers that are exploding offers every day they wait to take the job
their pay or bonuses decrease this forces prospects to make fast decisions rather than try and
wait it out to see if they get a better offer all of these examples show opportunities that decay
with time so if you find yourself in front of an opportunity like this make sure to emphasize it
summary points adding a deadline and incorporating one or multiple forms of urgency will get more
people to take action than otherwise I have employed all four of these methods with great
effectiveness I suggest you do the same next up bonuses free gift number seven bonus tutorial
how to ethically use scarcity and urgency if you want to walk through some live ethical examples
of scarcity and urgency with me go to acquisition.com for slash training for slash offers and select
scarcity and urgency to watch a short video tutorial you'll also be able to grab my scarcity
and urgency check list that I use when creating offers as always it's absolutely free enjoy.
Hey guys hope you enjoyed scarcity and urgency and are already thinking about ways you can
use it in your business so you can sell more stuff to more people I have a visual course version of
this on my site acquisition.com for slash training it's absolutely free you don't even have to give
me your email it's purely yours and it comes with downloads and checklists and things that you
can immediately print out or just use on your computer just start executing this stuff in the
real world because at the end of the day if you don't do anything nothing is going to change and
next episode we're going to talk about two more offer enhancers bonuses and guarantees can't wait
to see you there by the way share this paper review that makes you an awesome person.
Acquisition.com volume one one hundred million dollar offers how to make offer so good people feel
stupid saying no written and performed by Alex Ramose copyright 2021 acquisition.com audio
production copyright 2021 acquisition.com
