Welcome back to episode three of $100 million offers, the audio edition and
collab with the game podcast. Today's episode is the most famous chapter that I
wrote in the book, the value equation. It's probably the most retweeted, the
most shared, the most posted concept. This concept changed my life and changed my
businesses and I hope it does the same for you. At the very end I have a
special call to action that would mean the world to me if you got value from
this free content. It takes a second. And again, it would mean the world.
Section three, value, create your offer, how to make offers so good, people feel
stupid saying no.
Chapter six, value offer, the value equation. We question all of our beliefs,
except for the ones we really believe in and those we never think to question.
Orson Scott card. I want to be abundantly clear, the goal should be to charge as
much money for your products or services as humanly possible. I'm talking
heinous amounts of money. That being said, anyone can raise their prices, but
only a select few can charge these rates and get people to say yes. From this
point forward, you must have been in any notion you have about what's fair.
Every enormous company in the world charges you money for things that cost them
nothing. It costs pennies for the phone company to add an additional user,
except they don't mind charging you hundreds of dollars per month for access.
It costs pennies to manufacture pharmaceutical drugs, but they don't mind
charging hundreds of dollars per month for it. Media companies charge
advertisers, a king's ransom for your eyeballs, and it costs them next to nothing
to get you to like kid and photos on social media. You need to have a big
discrepancy between what something costs you and what you charge for it.
It is the only way to become unreasonably wealthy.
Many entrepreneurs believe that charging too much is bad. The reality is yes.
You should never charge more than your product is worth.
Be sure to charge far more for your product and services than it costs to
fulfill. Think up to a hundred times more, not just two or three times more.
And if you provide enough value, it should always still be a steal for the
prospect. That is the power of value. It unleashes unlimited pricing and
profit power to scale your company. For example, one of my private clients,
whose company I have equity in in our portfolio, is in the photography space.
Over two years, implementing the tactics outlined in this book,
the owner was able to increase the average ticket from $300 to $1500.
That's a 5X increase, gasp. Even cooler, they now spend less time per
customer and have higher customer satisfaction. The 5X increase in average
ticket, 38Xed the profit of the business. It went from making $8,000
a week in profit to $38,000 per week in profit and continues to grow.
As a result, the company was finally able to continue to scale to multiple
locations and provide meaningful work to great employees.
And a fun benefit, we were able to donate even more money to children's
charities, which is something the owner and I have in common,
almost a million dollars at the time of this writing.
But none of that would have been possible without figuring out what people valued
most, tripling down on it and ruthlessly eliminating everything else.
A 5X price increase may seem crazy to you, but clients voted with their
dollars that what the company provides now is far better than what it did before.
Cracking value opens up the world of unlimited profit,
impact, and possibilities. Those who understand value are the ones
who will be able to charge the most money for their services.
The good news is that there is a repeatable formula that I have created.
I've never seen it displayed elsewhere to help quantify the variables that
create value for any offer. I call it the value equation.
Once you see it, you can never unsee it.
It will operate in your subconscious running in the background,
calling out to you. It's a new lens through which to see the world.
The value equation, dream outcome, times perceived likelihood of achievement,
divided by time delay, times effort and sacrifice, equals value.
Free gift number four, value equation bonus tutorial and free downloads.
If you want to know how I break down businesses core offering into something more valuable,
go to acquisitions.com, forward slash trainings, forward slash offers,
and select the value equation video to watch a short tutorial.
I also included downloadable checklist,
my goal is to gain your trust and deliver value in advance.
As such, it's absolutely free. Enjoy.
So as you can see, or here, there are four primary drivers to value.
Two of the drivers, which are the top two parts of the equation,
you will seek to increase.
The other two on the bottom of the equation,
you will seek to decrease.
So one, yay, the dream outcome, our goal is to increase.
Two, yay, perceived likelihood of achievement, our goal is to increase.
Three, Boo, perceived time delay between start and achievement,
our goal is to decrease.
Four, Boo, perceived effort and sacrifice, our goal is to decrease.
If you notice the questions in the last section that my father asked me,
you'll see the corresponded with these pillars.
What will I make, dream outcome?
How will I know it's going to happen, perceived likelihood of achievement?
How long will it take, time delay?
What is expected of me?
Effort and sacrifice, get the bottom to zero.
In the beginning of my career, I focused all my attention on dream outcomes
and the perception of achievement, social proof, third party edification, etc.
In other words, the top side of the equation.
That's where beginner marketers make bigger and bigger claims.
It's easy and it's lazy.
But as time has gone on, I have realized that these larger than life claims
are the easiest to establish and therefore less unique.
After all, anyone can make a promise.
The harder and more competitive are the time delay and effort and sacrifice.
The best companies in the world focus all their attention on the bottom side of the equation.
Making things immediate, seamless and effortless.
Apple made the iPhone effortless compared to other phones at the time.
Amazon made purchasing a single click of a button and made purchases arrive almost immediately.
Maybe by the time you read this, they'll be sending drones to our doors within 60 minutes.
Netflix made consuming television immediate and effortless.
So, the older I get, the more I have shifted my focus to the quote hard stuff,
decreasing the bottom side of the equation.
And I believe the better you do this, the more you will be rewarded by the marketplace.
Bono, no.
The reason this is a division equation and not addition,
is that I want to convey one key point.
If you can make the bottom part of the equation equal to zero, you are golden.
No matter how small the top side is, anything divided by zero equals infinity,
which is technically undefined for math nerds.
In other words, if you can reduce your prospects true time delay to receiving value to zero,
aka, you realize your immediate dream outcome and your effort and sacrifices zero,
you have an infinitely valuable product.
If you accomplish this, you win the game.
Given this postulate, a prospect would, in theory, purchase something from you,
and the moment their credit card was run, it would immediately become their reality.
That is infinite value.
Imagine clicking the purchase button on a weight loss product and instantly seeing
your stomach turn into a six pack.
Or imagine hiring a marketing firm and as soon as you sign your document,
your phone begins to ring with new, highly qualified prospects.
How valuable would these products or services be?
Infinitely valuable.
And that's the point.
I don't know if we entrepreneurs will ever get there,
but that is the hypothetical limit we should all strive towards
and why I structured the equation this way.
Perception is reality.
Perception is reality.
It's not about how much you increase your prospects likely to have success,
or decrease the time delay to achievement,
or decrease their effort and sacrifice.
That in and of itself is not valuable.
Many times, they will have no idea.
The grants I'm offer only becomes valuable once the prospect perceives
the increase in likelihood of achievement,
perceives the decrease in time delay,
and perceives the decrease in effort and sacrifice.
A prime example of this happened on the London Tunnel System.
The biggest increase in rider satisfaction, aka value,
was never from faster trains to decrease weight times.
Instead, it was from a simple dotted map
that showed them when the next train was coming
and how long they had to wait.
The dotted map, which only cost a few million dollars,
decreased the rider's perception of time delay and sacrifice,
aka being word-weighting,
more than actually making the trains faster,
which cost billions of dollars to do.
Isn't that cool?
This is how we need to think about our products.
Pro tip.
Logical versus psycho-logical solutions.
Most people naturally try and solve problems using logical solutions,
but the logical solutions have already been tried.
Because they're logical,
it's what everyone would have tried to.
As business owners and entrepreneurs,
I increasingly approach problems
to find psychological solutions
rather than logical ones.
Because if there were a logical solution,
it probably would have already been solved,
thereby eliminating the problem.
All that remains are the psychological problems.
Example inspired by Rory Sutherland,
CMO of Oglevy advertising.
Any fool can sell a product by offering it for a discount.
It takes great marketing to sell the same product for a premium.
Logical solution.
Make trains faster to increase satisfaction.
Psychological solution.
Decrease the pain of waiting by adding a dotted map.
Psychological solution.
Pay models to be the hostesses on the trip.
People would wish it took longer to get to their destination.
Logical solution.
Make elevator faster.
Psychological solution.
Add floor to ceiling mirrors so people are distracted
staring at themselves and forget how long they were on the elevator.
Logical solution.
Make it cheaper.
Psychological solution.
Make fewer of them and raise the price
which would cause more people to want it.
Often, most logical solutions have been tried and failed.
At this point in history,
we must give the psychological solutions a shot to solve problems.
As such, as business owners,
it's up to us to communicate these value drivers
with clarity to increase the prospect's perception of these realities.
The extent to which you answer these questions
in the mind of your prospect will determine the value you are creating.
Only then will we truly be able to realize
the actual value of our product to the marketplace
and by extension,
the egregious prices we wish to charge.
It's difficult to separate four-value drivers from one another
as most vehicles combine many of these elements together,
but I will do my best to isolate and clearly explain each one below.
Number one, dream outcome.
Our goal.
Increase.
People have deep, unchanging desires.
This is what marriages are lost over,
wars are fought over, and people willingly die for.
Our goal is not to create desire.
Our goal is simply to channel that desire
through our offer and monetization vehicle.
The dream outcome is the expression of that feeling
and experiences the prospect has envisioned in their mind.
It's the gap between their current reality and their dreams.
Our goal is to accurately depict that dream back to them
so they feel understood and explain how our vehicle will get them there.
The dream outcome is simple.
It's the getting there where the value gets enhanced or detracted.
People generally and our clients specifically want
to be perceived as beautiful, to be respected,
to be perceived as powerful, to be loved,
to increase their status.
These are all powerful drivers.
But multiple vehicles may accomplish the same thing.
Take the desire to be perceived as beautiful, for example.
There are a lot of things that touch on this desire.
Make up, anti-aging creams or serums, supplements,
shapewear, plastic surgery, fitness.
All of these vehicles channel the desire
to be perceived as beautiful.
And we further unpack the idea of a desire to be beautiful.
We see that it may be a surface-level declaration
of a deeper desire to achieve higher status in one social group.
The dream outcome value driver
is most prominently used when comparing the relative value
between two different desires being satisfied.
In general, the dream outcome that most directly
increases the prospect's status
will be the one they value the most.
As such, a prospect may value
that entire category of vehicles that satisfy one desire
more than another category that satisfies a different desire.
For many men, making money is more important than being handsome.
Why?
Because money drives status for men more than being handsome does.
So in general, they will value all offers that make them money
more than offers that help them look good.
I once heard Russell Brunson tell a story about this concept.
He explained how his wife called it
at first hearing this status concept rejected it.
She claimed she wasn't driven by status
and would never want a Lamborghini.
Instead, she favored her minivan.
But, after talking further,
she revealed it was because driving a Lamborghini
would decrease her status amongst her mom friends
while driving a minivan
which showed that she was a good mom,
increased in status.
So it's not about the money.
It's about the status.
The perceived increase or decrease in relative standing
when compared to others socially or professionally.
Talk in terms of things your prospect believes
will increase their status
and you will have your prospects drooling.
Pro tip.
Frame benefits in terms of status gained
from the viewpoint of others.
When riding copy, you can make it that much more powerful
by talking about how other people
will perceive the prospect's achievement.
Connect the knots for them.
Example, if you buy this golf club,
your drive will increase by 40 yards.
Your golf buddies,
jaws will drop when they see your ball
sore 40 yards past theirs.
They will ask you what's changed,
only you will know.
That being said,
when comparing two products or services
that satisfy the same desire,
the value from the dream outcomes will cancel out
since they are the same.
It will be the other three variables
that drive the difference in perceived value
and ultimately price.
For example,
if we had two products or services
that both help make someone beautiful,
it will be the likelihood of achievement,
time delay,
and effort required that will differentiate
the perceived value of each offer.
Simply put,
if two things make someone beautiful,
what makes one worth $50,000
and another worth $5?
Answer,
the extent of the other three value variables.
Number two,
perceived likelihood of achievement,
our goal,
increase.
This was the last of the variables that I added
when trying to think through this framework
a few years ago.
I just felt like something was missing
with only the other three.
Then I realized people pay for certainty.
They value certainty.
I call this the perceived likelihood of achievement.
In other words,
how likely do I believe that it is
that I will achieve the result
that I am looking for if I make this purchase?
For example,
how much would you pay
to be a plastic surgeon's 10,000th patient
versus their first?
If you're a normal,
same person,
a lot more.
I mean, heck,
you might even ask them to pay you
if you're their first patient ever.
So you can see even from this simple example
that while the service you're receiving
is technically the same,
the only thing that changes is
your perceived likelihood of getting what you want.
Both surgeons take the same amount of time
to do the surgery.
If anything, the guy who has done it 10,000 times
would likely get it done faster
and still charge more.
The more experienced surgeon has a track
record of achieving result,
which incentivizes their desirability.
People value this perceived
likelihood of achievement.
Increasing a prospect's conviction
that your offer will actually work for them
will make your offer that much more valuable.
Even though the work remains the same on your end.
So to increase value with all offers,
we must communicate perceive likely of achievement
through our messaging,
proof,
what we choose to include or exclude in our offer
and our guarantees.
More on this later.
Number three, time delay.
Our goal increase.
Time delay is the time between a client
buying and receiving the promised benefit.
The shorter the distance between
when they make the purchase
and when they receive value,
slash the outcome,
the more valuable your service or product is.
There are two elements to this driver of value,
long-term outcome and short-term experience.
Many times, there are short-term experiences
that occur and route to the long-term outcomes.
They happen along the way and provide value.
It's good to understand both.
The thing people buy is the long-term value,
aka the dream outcome.
But the thing that makes them stay long enough
to get it is the short-term experience.
These are the little milestone
a prospect sees along the way
that shows them they are on the right path.
We try and tie as many of these as possible
into any service we offer.
We want clients to have a big emotional win early
as close as possible to their purchase.
This gives them the emotional buying
and the momentum to see it through to their ultimate goal.
For example, it takes a while to add
an extra $239,000 per year to a gym,
but that's what they're buying.
So once they have purchased,
we need to create emotional wins fast.
One of the ways we do this is to get their ads live
and get them to close their first $2,000 sale
within their first seven days.
By doing this, their decision to work with us is reinforced
and they immediately trust us more.
This makes them more likely to follow the rest of our systems
and get to their ultimate destination.
Pro tip, fast wins.
Always try and incorporate short-term immediate wins for a client.
Be creative.
They just need to know that they're on the right path
and they made the right decision
trusting you in your business.
Let me give you another example.
If I sell someone a bikini body,
their time to lay to realize that Alka
may be 12 months or even longer.
Along the way, though,
as they change their bodies,
they may experience higher sex drive,
more energy and an increased community of friends.
They aren't initially buying those things,
but those things may become short-term benefits
that keep them in the game long enough
to achieve their ultimate outcome.
They buy the dream,
but they stay for the benefits they discover along the way.
The faster and more clearly you can demonstrate
those benefits, the more valuable your service will be.
For a weight loss customer,
we would get them to meet someone else
so they immediately had some social benefits from the program.
And we usually give them a more aggressive diet in the beginning.
Why?
Because we want them to have a big,
fast, emotional win
so we could get them to commit to the long term.
This is also backed by science.
People who experience a victory early on
are more likely to continue with something
than those who do not.
That being said,
having to wait 12 to 24 months
to get you what you want is a long time
when you can do liposuction
and be done in an afternoon.
This just shows one of the reasons people
pay $25,000 for liposuction with a tummy tuck,
while people will barely pay $100 a month to join a bootcamp.
But that's not the only reason is it.
That leads me to the last driver of value,
effort and sacrifice.
Pro tip, fast beats free.
The only thing that beats free is fast.
People will pay for speed.
Many companies have entered free spaces
and done exceedingly well with a speed first strategy.
A few notable companies,
the MVD versus the DMV,
wait in line forever or pay $50,
you can skip the line and get your license renewed privately.
FedEx versus USPS,
when it absolutely positively has to be there overnight.
Spotify versus slow-free music.
Uber versus walking.
Fast beats free.
Many will always be willing to pay price
for the value of speed.
So if you find yourself in a market competing against free,
double down on speed.
Number four,
effort and sacrifice.
Our goal,
decrease.
This is what it costs people
and it's laery costs,
aka other costs accrued along the way.
These can be both tangible and intangible.
Using the fitness liposuction example,
let's look at the difference in effort and sacrifice.
Fitness effort and sacrifice.
Wake up one to two hours earlier in the morning,
five to 10 hours per week of time lost,
stop eating the foods you love,
constant hunger, physical soreness,
feelings of embarrassment
and not knowing how to exercise,
risk of injury,
literal nausea working out,
meal prepping,
new groceries,
more expensive groceries,
new clothing,
fear of gaining it back after all this effort,
aka impermanence,
etc.
liposuction effort and sacrifice.
Follow sleep,
wake up thin,
guaranteed,
be sore for two to four weeks.
Massive difference, right?
In fact,
in looking at the marketing of plastic surgeons,
these are the exact pain points they hit on
when they say things like
tired of wasting countless hours in the gym,
tired of diets that just don't work.
This is why when you self fitness,
you have to spend an hour
arm wrestling a client to give over one tenth
or one one hundred
of the amount of money they pay for surgery,
there's just not a lot of perceived value
because the perceived like that of achievement,
the time to lay to achievement
and the effort and sacrifice are so high.
So even though the outcome is the same,
the value of the vehicles are dramatically different,
hence the difference in price,
decreasing the effort and sacrifice
or at least the perceived effort and sacrifice
can massively boost the appeal of your offer.
In an ideal world,
a prospect would want to simply say yes
and have their dream outcome happen
with no more effort on their behalf.
This is why done for you services
are almost always more expensive than do it yourself
because a person doesn't have to do
all the effort and sacrifice.
There's also a component of perceived
likelihood of achievement,
difference as well.
People believe that if an expert does it,
then they will be more likely to achieve the outcome
than if they try on their own.
My hope is that you now have a foundational
understanding of the components of value
and how the interplay between each of the components
creates or detracts from the value
someone might be willing to pay,
putting it all together.
As I said earlier,
these elements of value don't happen in a vacuum.
They happen together in combination.
So let's look at a few examples
that utilize all four components of value of once.
In an effort to quantify the value,
I'll rate them on a binary scale of zero or one.
One being value achieved,
zero being missing.
Then I will add all four together
to give you a relative value rating of a type of service.
Our goal as marketers and business owners
is to increase the value of the dream outcome
and its perceived likelihood of achievement
while decreasing the time delay of achievement
and the effort and sacrifice one has to put in to get there.
To start,
I will do a side-by-side comparison
of two vehicles with identical dream outcomes,
meditation and Xanax,
both offer the buyer relaxation,
decreased anxiety,
and feelings of well-being.
I will demonstrate how the other three variables
dramatically shift the value
of delivering that dream outcome
and ultimately the price.
Meditation versus Xanax.
So I'm going to read the chart below
to compare relative scores
on each of the four value drivers.
Meditation,
dream outcome,
relaxation,
decreased anxiety,
feelings of well-being,
score one out of one,
perceived likelihood of achievement,
low since most people get distracted
and don't actually think they'll follow through
with daily meditation.
Score zero out of one.
Time delay.
Long time to yield long-term results.
Some immediate benefits after 10 to 20 minutes,
assuming you don't get frustrated.
Score 0.5 out of one.
Effort and sacrifice.
Physical discomfort,
numbody limbs often,
mental discomfort,
feeling like you are feeling constantly.
Time sacrifice.
You have to set aside time every day to do this.
Score zero out of one.
Overall value score for meditation.
Low.
1.5 out of four.
Now let's look at Xanax.
Dream outcome.
Same as meditation.
Relaxation,
decreased anxiety,
feelings of well-being,
score one out of one.
Perceived likelihood of achievement.
High since most people are confident
that if they take the pill,
he will make them feel more relaxed.
Score one out of one.
Time delay.
15 minutes for effects to be felt.
Score one out of one.
Effort and sacrifice.
Swallowing a pill.
Score one out of one.
Overall value score.
High four out of four.
And that is why Xanax is a multi-billion dollar product
while I know of almost no multi-billion dollar
meditation businesses.
Value.
I'm not here to argue about whether meditation is better
than Xanax.
Obviously it is.
But that doesn't mean it's perceived as more valuable.
This is also the reason that supplement industry.
123 billion,
according to Grandview Research,
is twice the size of the health club industry.
62 billion, according to HRSA.
They both accomplish the same perceived objectives.
Being healthy, losing weight,
looking good at increasing energy, etc.
But one is perceived as more valuable
because it has lower costs.
People are more willing to pay $200 for supplements
than they offer a $29 per month membership.
Taking a pill or drinking a shake is so much faster
and easier than going to the gym every day.
Hence valued.
Crazy world we live in.
And you can either sit there and make
complain posts about how people ought to be a certain way
or you can take advantage of the way people are and capitalize.
This book is for those people who want to be victors
not victims of circumstance.
You can either be right or you can be rich.
This book is for getting rich.
If that bothers you,
you can put this down and go back to arguing
against human nature.
Hence, you're not going to change it.
Now, that being said,
knowing what people value versus what is good for them is key.
It means you can find ways to monetize
the things that people value in order to give them
what they really need.
When, when?
You can make your dent in the universe
while making a profit.
Hey guys, if you're struggling to keep track of this
or you like highlighting,
you're like writing notes in the margin
or you like seeing the frameworks.
You might not know this,
but I actually hand drew every single framework inside of this book.
And I think there's at least 50 hand drawn images
and frameworks inside this book
that I painstakingly put together to make the consumption
easier and so that it stores in more parts of your brain.
And so if that sounds at all interesting,
you can go to Amazon and grab the physical copy
or the Kindle version of that
if you prefer either of those formats they're available to you.
Chapter 7.
Pre-Goodwill.
Key who said money can't buy happiness
hasn't given enough away.
Source unknown.
People who help others with zero expectation
experience higher levels of fulfillment,
live longer and make more money.
I'd like to create the opportunity to deliver this value
to you during your reading or listening experience.
In order to do so,
I have a simple question for you.
Would you help someone you've never met
if it didn't cost you money,
but you never got credit for it?
If so, I haven't asked to make on behalf of someone you do not know
and likely never will.
They are just like you,
or like you were a few years ago.
Less experienced, full of desire to help the world,
seeking information, but unsure where to look.
This is where you come in.
The only way for us at acquisition.com
to accomplish our mission of helping entrepreneurs
is first by reaching them.
And most people do, in fact,
judge a book by its cover and its reviews.
If you have found this book valuable thus far,
would you please take a brief moment right now
and leave an honest review of the book and its contents?
It will cost you zero dollars and less than 60 seconds.
Your review will help one more entrepreneur support his or her family.
One more employee find work they find meaningful.
One more client experienced a transformation
the otherwise would not have encountered.
One more life changed for the better.
To make that happen,
all you have to do is,
and this takes less than 60 seconds,
leave a review.
If you're on Audible,
hit the three dots on the top right of your device,
click and rate and review,
and then leave a few sentences about the book with a star rating.
If for some reason they have changed the functionality,
you can go to the book page of Amazon,
or wherever you purchase this,
and leave a review right on the page.
PS,
if you feel good about helping a faceless entrepreneur,
you are my kind of people.
I'm that much more excited to help you crush it
in the coming chapters.
You'll love the tactics I'm about to go over.
PPS,
Lifehack.
If you introduce something valuable to someone,
they associate that value with you.
If you'd like goodwill,
directly from another entrepreneur,
send this book their way.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Now back to our regularly scheduled programming,
your biggest fan, Alex.
Hey guys, hope you enjoyed the value equation.
I'm just going to reiterate the one thing,
which is that help me share this knowledge with people.
Obviously it's on my podcast for free.
You can share the actual podcast itself.
The most helpful thing to do if you're sending to a friend
will probably be to send the first episode
so they can listen to this in order for the book.
But to reach a stranger rather than just your friends,
there's probably an entrepreneur out there
who hasn't read this stuff
and could absolutely change his life or her life
and their family's lives as a result.
And so if you could leave the book a review on Amazon,
it took me two days to record this.
If you could take 60 seconds to do it,
it would just mean a lot to me.
And maybe even change someone else's life.
So if you could do that, that would be awesome.
And you would be awesome too.
