What's going on guys? I have a special special surprise for you. This is not announced publicly
so you guys will be the first one to hear it. But I have actually made my $100 million
offers audiobook which has been available on Amazon for the last two years and has been
top 100 throughout that whole time. It's now here free for you guys. And I did that because
I just want more people to have it and more people to share it. So the next few chapters
and episodes will be directly from the audiobook for your listening pleasure.
And my only ask is that you share it. Share it with somebody who you think it would benefit from.
And it would just mean the world to me and hopefully to them. Enjoy.
Welcome to the special edition of $100 million dollars offers. In this episode collab with the
game, we will be going over opening credits, dedication, start here, how we got here,
and grand slam offers. And I hope you enjoyed this book as much as I enjoyed making it for you.
And if it does provide you value, I hope you'll share it with a friend.
Dedication to Laila. You are my writer, die. A term used to describe a person, usually a woman
that is willing to do anything for their partner, friend or family, even in the face of danger.
Couldn't do this without you and wouldn't want to. You make waking up every day worth it.
Thank you for being unapologetically you. You're a down motherfucker to Trevor.
You're the best friend a guy could ask for. Thank you for spending hours upon hours
beating up the ideas that became this book with me. It would not have been half as good as it is
without your relentless drive for simplification and clarity, eternally grateful for our friendship.
You make me feel less alone in this world. Cheers to becoming old and crotchety.
Start here.
Outside's returns often come from betting against conventional wisdom. Conventional wisdom is usually
given a 10% chance of a hundred times payoff. You should take that bet every time.
But you're still going to be wrong nine times out of ten. We all know that if you swing for
the fences, you're going to strike out a lot. But you're also going to hit some home runs.
The difference between baseball and business, however, is that baseball has a truncated outcome
distribution. When you swing, no matter how well you connect with the ball, the most runs you can
get is four. In business, every once in a while, when you step up to the plate, you can score a thousand
runs. This long tail distribution of returns is why it's important to be bold. Big winners pay for
so many experiments. Jeff Bezos. As entrepreneurs, we make bets every day. We are gamblers,
gambling our hard earned money on labor, inventory, rent, marketing, etc. All with the hopes of a higher
payout. Oftentimes we lose, but sometimes we win and win big. However, there's a difference between
gambling and business and gambling in a casino. In a casino, the odds are stacked against you. With
skill, you can improve them but never beat them. In contrast, in business, you can improve your skills
to shift the odds in your favor. Simply stated, with enough skill, you can become the house.
After beginning a series of books on acquisition, it became apparent that I could not talk
about any other topic without first addressing the offer. The starting point of any conversation
to initiate a transaction with a customer. What you are literally providing them in exchange
for their money. That's where it all begins. This book is about how to make profitable offers.
Specifically, how to reliably turn advertising dollars into enormous profits, using a combination
of pricing, value, guarantees, and naming strategies. I call the proper combination of these
components a grand slam offer. I chose this term partially in homage to the above quote from
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, and because, like a grand slam in baseball, a grand slam offer is both
very good and very rare. Additionally, to extend the baseball metaphor, it takes no more effort to
make a grand slam offer than to strike out. The difference is dictated by the skill of the marketer
and how well he connects his offer with his audience's desires. In business, you can have so-so
offers, the singles and doubles that keep the game going, pay the bills, and keep the lights on.
But unlike baseball, where a grand slam scores a maximum of four runs, a grand slam offer in the
business world can score you a thousandfold payoff and a result in a world where you never need to work
again. It would be like connecting with the ball so well during one single at bat that you
automatically win every world series for the next hundred years. It takes years of practice to make
something as complicated as hitting a major league basketball into the bleachers look effortless.
Your stance, vision, prediction, ball speed, bat speed, and hit placement all must be perfect.
In marketing and customer acquisition, the process of getting new customers,
there are just as many variables that must all align to truly knock it out of the park.
But with enough practice and enough skill, you can turn the wild world of acquisition,
which will throw curveballs at you every day into a home run derby, knocking offer after offer
out of the stadium. To everyone else, your success will look unbelievable. But to you,
it will just feel like just another day at work. The greatest hitters of all time also have many
strikeouts. Just as there are many failed offers in the track record of great marketers,
we learn skills through failure and practice. We do this knowing that nine times out of ten,
we will be wrong. We still act boldly, hoping for that offer we connect with so well that it
results in our big payoff. The good news is that in business, you only need to hit one
grand slam offer to retire forever. I have done this four or five times in my life.
As for my track record, I have a 36 to one lifetime return on my advertising dollars over my
business career. Consider this my lifetime batting average, if you will. That means for every one
dollar I spend on advertising, I get $36 back, a 36 hundred percent return. That is my average
over eight years, and I continue to improve. This book is my attempt to share that scale with you,
with a specific focus on building grand slam offers, so you can experience the same levels of success.
It's also the first in a series of books meant to get entrepreneurs to financial freedom,
in plain words, fuck you money. Subsequent books in this series will look more deeply at getting
more customers, converting more prospects into clients, making those clients worth more, and other
lessons I wish I had learned earlier in scaling my businesses. Protit, faster, deeper learning by
reading and listening at the same time. Here's a life hack I discovered a long time ago.
If you listen to the audiobook while reading the ebook or physical book, you will increase your
reading speed and retain more information. The contents are being stored in more places in your
brain. This is how I read most things worth reading. I've priced my products as cheap as the
platform to allow me, so this is an employee to make an extra ninety-nine cents. Promise.
If you want to give it a try, go ahead and grab the audio version and see for yourself.
You might find it as valuable as I have, as someone who struggles to stay focused.
It took two days to talk this book out loud and record it. I figured I'd put this hack at the
beginning of the book, so you had a chance to do it if you found the first chapter valuable enough
to earn your attention. Section 1. How We Got Here, The Ugly Truth
Chapter 1. How We Got Here
Magic will find those with pure hearts, even when all seems lost. Morgan Rhodes.
December 24th, 2016. Christmas Eve. The room was pitch black. My shoes stuck to a floor covered
in dried soda and crushed bits of candy. My nostrils were full with the smell of step popcorn.
We had just shown up too late to get good seats and ended up pressing near the front of the
theater. Just a few rows in front of me. The movie's blazing projection occupied my entire field
of view. In the reflected glow, I could see the outlines of Leila's family's faces. They may as
well have been hypnotized. I envied them. They sat, entranced, soaking in their paid time off for
Christmas. Must be nice. Anybody else would have missed it, but Leila, my girlfriend at the time,
knew me too well. Anybody else would have thought I was watching the movie, but Leila could tell I was
staring blankly at the screen. My eyes not tracking with the movie. My face was pale. My cheekbones and
jawline appeared gone. Weeks of chronic stress had killed my appetite. What's wrong? She asked. I didn't
answer. She risked her hand on mine to get my attention. I didn't react. Within moments her
fingers tied around my wrist, and she looked at me, her eyes searching for mine. Your heart is racing,
she whispered, concerned. Without asking, she took my pulse. It was a hundred beat per minute,
nearly twice what it should be for a fit 27 year old male at rest in a cool dark room.
What's going on? She asked more forcibly, but still whispered. The truth is, I was terrified.
A few hours earlier. I looked like a giant. I sat scrunched up in a children's miniature playchair.
My knees almost touched my chest, even with my feet firmly planted on the old beige carpeted floor.
My laptop felt hot, sitting atop my steeply angled knees. Dolls and toys were scattered around me.
They stared at me with wide eyes and toothy grins. Motionless. I had been their entertainment
for the past few weeks. I was in Leila's parents' house. They had recently become grandparents and
used this spare bedroom as a playroom when their children visited. I didn't have a place to live,
so they were letting Leila and I stay there, quote, as long as we needed, end quote.
They had let me use the children's playroom as my office for my business, which at this point
felt almost as make believe as the stories they had told their grandchildren in this room.
I literally felt like I was playing dress up, except the stakes were real, and this was my life.
My ears were hot and red from the phone being pressed against them for what felt like hours.
I kept switching hands because my arms would tire from holding the phone out for so long.
I'm sorry, Mr. Homozi, the voice in the other end of the line said,
we have to hold on to these funds for the next six months. We've seen some irregular activity.
So this is precautionary. Are you fucking kidding me? 120 grand? I said, a precaution?
I'm sorry, sir, our underwriting team. Yeah, yeah, I heard you. I said, cutting them off. I don't
accept that. Sir, it's not up to me. It's just our problem. What am I going to tell my salesman?
There's a baby on the way and another one. Are you going to tell him he's not going to buy his
pregnant wife and newborn food? Are you going to pay his mortgage for him? I was seething.
Sir, you beginning it with unfazed apathy, just trying to deliver the news.
It's not yours to take. My aggression was quickly turning into desperation.
Shit, just send me half second pay my employees. It's Christmas Eve for fuck's sake.
Sir, we're going to be holding onto the entire of your funds for the next six months per your agreement.
The voice faded into the distance. Fuck. I hang up and check my accounts. 23,000, 36 dollars.
I owed my salesman a $22,000 commission check for 120,000 in sales I never got.
Without wanting to give myself the opportunity to think about, I wired it to him.
Negative 22,000 payment successful. Balance $1,036. Fuck.
The sunlight blinded me as we emerged from the matinee. Family shuffled in and out through the revolving
doors, making their happy memories. I was in a daze. Lila led me to the car, her hand wrapped firmly
around mind. What's wrong? What happened? Yes. The money isn't coming. What do you mean? It's delayed.
I exhaled in the feet. They're keeping it all. Can they do that? Apparently. I said stoically,
trying to maintain my composure in front of her parents. What are you going to do about the
commissions? I already paid him everything. I said without looking at her. Lila's concern turned a
dread. We sat in silence the whole way home. I stared out the window. She held my hand in hers.
There was more comforting than I anticipated. We'll get through this. 30 days earlier.
I decided to go all in on this new business I called Jim Watch. He was the idea. I would fly
around the country to Jim's and fill them up to full capacity using this new methodology that
hinged on an offer I had perfected when I owned my chain of gyms. Leading up to this moment,
I had sold five of my six gyms. The funds from selling them, my life's work, I'd put into an
account that I had with a new bartender. This money was supposed to be the seed money for our new
company. I was finally going to realize some level of success. My alarm went off. I groggly swung my
arm over, blindly clawing at the bedside table. I switched off the alarm. While Lila somehow managed
to sleep through the commotion. I laid their silently pulling up the bank accounts a daily
ritual. The balance said $300. Wait, that can be right. There was 46,000 in here yesterday. My
adrenaline surged. Looking closer, I saw minus 45,700 payment successful. I was frantic. The money
from selling all my gyms was gone. I checked where the money went to my, quote, partner, end quote.
He had taken all the money out. Fuck. The last four years of my life had vanished that fast.
I officially had nothing and even less to show for it. No gyms, no equipment, no employees,
nothing. I felt that inside. Adding insult to injury in that same 30-day period,
my mother was in critical condition because of a near fatal accident and was still under 24
hours of supervision. And I had told him my car and head on collision at 60 miles an hour and
earned a DUI as my consolation prize. This was the cherry on top. My one saving grace during this
time was selling a new challenge offer at a gym and collecting all the cash upfront as my fee
for turning their business around. So I did the only thing I knew. I sold. My salesman had done
$120,000 in a single month and I owed him $22,000 in commissions. The problem was the $120,000
never came. We need to talk. I said, as Lila and I went to the other room, I worked up to the
courage to speak, but stared at the floor, embarrassed. I've got nothing. As I door, I'm a sinking
ship and you don't have to stay here with me. She grabbed my chin and pulled my face towards hers
so she could look into my eyes. I would sleep with you under a bridge that became to that.
I would have cried tears of joy, but I was so emotionally exhausted that my response
appeared apathetic. I wouldn't stay with me. So we still going to do these launches starting
tomorrow, she asked. All my friends quit their jobs to do this. She's being matter of fact,
but it's still stuck. I felt defeated. Listen, this could go horribly wrong. I trust you. We'll
figure it out. I had two things left at this point. A grand slam offer and an old business credit card
with a $100,000 limit from when I had my gems. On the day after Christmas, two days after the
gut wrenching call with the payment processor, we were scheduled to launch six new gems at the same
time. Between airfare hotels, rental cars, gas and ad spend while multiplied by six, I was going
to be spending $3,300 per day of money I didn't have. My last dollar had gone to paying my salesman.
I still remember my hand shaking as the advertisement went live off to on. Just like that,
I was going into debt at a rate of $412 per working hour. Just like that, $3,300 per day began
getting deducted from my account. Minus $3,300 I now officially have nothing. Minus $3,300 I now
officially have less than nothing. Minus $3,300 I have $10,000 less than nothing. Minus $3,300 this
one decision is going to ruin my future forever. But things started shaping up. Here's what happened
that month, January 2017, as documented by my old processing records I dug up. In the physical book,
there's a chart that I am referencing. You can see the month along the left column and the revenue
collected on that month along the right. I made $100,117. It was just enough to cover the $3,300
day that had been coming off the credit card. It was actually working. I could hardly believe it.
I threw the Hail Mary and the University of Caution. I went from looking up bankruptcy lawyers
to figuring out what to do with $3 million in profits accrued within the first 12 months.
It felt surreal and in hindsight, it still kind of does. By the end of the year, we were doing $1.5
million per month. 12 months from then, $4.4 million per month. 24 months after that, we crossed
120 million in sales and donated $2 million to help fund equal opportunity and low income areas.
We met Embrofrenda Donald Schwarzenegger, my lifelong hero, and we were asked to become board members
of his charity after school all stars. 12 months after that, we now have a portfolio of seven
eight figure and multi eight figure companies across a variety of industries, photography, publishing,
fitness, business consulting, beauty, and business types, brick and mortar chains, software,
service, e-commerce, training and education. Our portfolio companies now do about $1.6 million
per week and growing. I say this because honestly, I can't believe it. All of this was because of a
girl who believed in me, a credit card, and a grand time offer. I know I teleported you from rag
to riches. And the natural question is, how? That's what I'm going to use the rest of this book
and the remaining books and free courses in acquisition.com to break down. The skill of making
offers save me from bankruptcy and likely save my life. I've made so many mistakes in my life.
I've made so many bad life decisions. I've hurt people knowingly and mistakenly. I've done bad
things with good intentions. I say this because I am human. I don't pretend to have the answers.
I have my own demons that I bought all every day. But despite my many shortcomings, I've still
managed to get really good at this one thing, and I'd like to share that with you. I can teach you how
to build great offers. I don't know who you are. Yes, you, the one listening to this.
But thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you for allowing me to do work. I find meaningful.
Thank you for giving me the most valuable asset you have, your attention. I promised to do my
very best to give you a positive return on it. Here's your first piece of good news. If you're
listening to this, then you already are in the top 10%. Most people buy stuff and then promptly
ignore it. I can also throw out a spoiler. The further you get in this book, the bigger the
nuggets become. Just watch this book delivers. The world needs more entrepreneurs and needs more
fighters. It needs more magic. And that's what I'm sharing with you magic.
Hey, guys, real quick. I don't know if you know this, but $100 million offers has a physical
copy and a Kindle copy online. So you can go to Amazon and grab those. If that's helpful for me,
I prefer to read with my eyes and listen at the same time. And especially the books that I
refer to often I like having on my desk next to me so I can pull them up and use them to make
money doing whatever it is that I'm doing. Chapter two. Grand Slam offers. Make people
an offer so good they would feel stupid saying no. Travis Jones. I was 23 years old and to quote
Ruth from Ozark, I didn't know shit about fuck. But there was in a Las Vegas penthouse rotel room
along with 10 business owners learning about marketing and sales in my most fashionable
beast mode t-shirt. A shirt I had gotten for free and one of the five shirts I owned at the time.
Truthfully, I was anxious, self-conscious, and thought I was making a huge mistake.
I paid $3,000 of money I didn't have to get a seat at the table.
I knew I needed to learn. Everyone there had a business except me. I was planning on starting one.
A gym. TJ, the organizer, had multiple successful businesses. While going over the agenda,
I remember he made an offhand comment about making a million dollars that year.
One million dollars. I was spelled out. I want to be like this guy. Do anything.
The problem was I didn't know what any of them were talking about. KPIs, CPLs, conversion rates.
My head was spinning as I pretended like I knew what they were talking about. But I didn't,
and I'm bad at pretending. Between sessions, TJ found me. He could tell I was way over my head.
TJ was kind, curious, and caring. After a little bit of small talk, he asked me a simple question
that changed my life forever. Do you want to know the secret to sales?
I had never sold anything in my life. I never even had a book on it. I just recently learned
what the term even meant seriously. I leaned forward and tended to download every sellable
that he spoke right into my brain. I opened my notebook and stared at him with intent.
I was ready for the secret. He looked at me soberly and said,
make people an offer so good they would feel stupid saying no. I nodded, wrote it down,
underlined it, and circled at it. And with that, my entire worldview of selling was transformed.
Make people an offer so good they would feel stupid saying no. My mind was racing.
I didn't have to be skilled or even any good. I just had to come up with things that anyone would
say yes to. The greatest game of my life had now begun. What this book is about. At some point,
every successful business owner was a entrepreneur, a person full of ideas and frustrated at having
potential despair. Something clicks when they realize the horrible trade day and so many people make
trading their freedom for falsely perceived security. They're discomfort compounds.
And once the discomfort of staying the same surpasses the discomfort of change, they take the leap.
I'm going to be an entrepreneur so I can be free. They tell themselves,
free to do whatever I want, whenever I want, with whom ever I want.
Some learned about entrepreneurship through personal development. Others got into it through
a franchise. Others bought courses. And some just said, fuck it. I'm doing it. And I'll make it
work and make it work they did. Most of us opened up shop with the intention of helping people in
some way. Many times, this assistance isn't some way related to something that's affected us
personally. We set out to give back by providing to others by helping them solve a problem that
was plagued us. Then again, sometimes this isn't our way in. In either case, we cling to the dream
of making more and being freer than we are now. Many of us thought naively that owning a business
would be our crowning accomplishment, a final destination. When in reality, it was just the beginning.
Somehow, in the transition between passionate to helping others and owning my first business,
we gradually realized that we don't even know the first thing about business, let alone turning a
profit. We may know a lot about our passion about why we started the business. That doesn't mean
we know anything about succeeding in business. Much to the disappointment of idealists on the
sidelines, succeeding in business means getting prospective customers to trade us money for our
services, our passion for their harder and coins. That's the agreement. The only way to
facilitate that exchange to transact to literally carry out business as a business is by making the
prospect an offer. What's an offer anyways? The only way to conduct a business is through a value
exchange, a trade of dollars for value. The offer is what initiates this trade. In a nutshell,
the offers the goods and services you agree to provide, how you accept payment, and the terms of
the agreement. It is what begins the process of getting customers and making money. It is the
first thing that any new customer will interact with in your business. Since the offer is what attracts
new customers, it is the lifeblood of your business. No offer, no business, no life, bad offer,
negative profit, no business, miserable life, decent offer, no profit, stagnating business, stagnating
life, good offer, some profit, okay business, okay life, grand slam offer, fantastic profit,
insane business, freedom. This book helps entrepreneurs craft those grand slam offers.
These are the offers that are so effective, profitable, and life-changing that it seems like
they can only be the result of luck. That's how it looks to an untrained eye anyway.
As you likely know now, I have crafted thousands of offers over the last decade. Most have failed,
some did okay, and some struck gold, but I never really knew why. As Dr. Bergoman, a famous
Stanford Business School professor said, it is far better to understand why you failed than to be
ignorant of why you succeeded. But as the data started rolling in, what seemed like luck and
fortune was closer to a repeatable framework. I've been fortunate enough to strike gold enough
times to document these frameworks and have gotten lightning to strike twice. I've put the steps
and components of those frameworks in a logical and digestible format, so they're actually useful
today, like now. I'm giving you action instead of a sad but typical book of vague business
theories and mental masturbation. The two main problems most entrepreneurs face and how this book
solves them. Although you can make a list of the problems you face a mile long, which is a great
way to stress yourself out. All these problems typically stem from the big two cajonus. One,
not enough clients. Two, not enough cash. In other words, excess profit at the end of the month.
Seems obvious, right? It costs more time and money to get clients thereby solving issue one,
and that money is coming from the profit margins, which create problem too.
What's more annoying? Prospects savagely compare and belittle our services in favor of cheaper
and crappier alternatives, with the cheapest one winning. This, of course, when winning means
getting to work for more or for even less, sad face. Let's see if slash prices to get more customers.
You may even have a full client look, but here you are, barely making it because profit margins
are too thin. Competition becomes a race to the bottom. If you're struggling with one or both of
these issues you're not alone, I've been there. Heck, I think every entrepreneur has these same
challenges. I also want you to know that it's not your fault. Typical models weren't designed
for profit maximization. They were designed by companies who have boatlets of funding and can operate
at a loss for years. When these models are used in the real world, business owners just barely
get by. They essentially buy themselves a job and work 100 hours a week to avoid working 40.
Happy trade. My guess is that if you're anything like me, you sign up for something better.
Keep an open mind. The contents of this book, if executed, can transform your business fast.
It's okay if you're not into money, numbers, or business models. I've done all that work for you.
I'm walking through the process step by step in these pages. I'm going to explain each of the
two big problems we touched on above in detail, including why they don't work. Then, I'm going
to show you the solutions. To wrap this adventure up, I'll explain how to enhance value to maximize
how much you make per customer so that you can outmarket everyone and set cash. We use this
all for model for every niche we work with. Kairos, dentists, gyms, agencies, plumbers,
roofers, dog walkers, physical products, software, brick and mortar stores, and so many more.
And it's amazing how fast things can improve with each and every one of them when they use this
framework. What's in it for you? I've made every dumb business stake in the book. Now, you
can learn from my embarrassing, brutal, multi-million dollar fucker apps without having to suffer
the same pain yourself. Building these businesses has been a very hard and emotional journey for me.
I wouldn't trade these experiences for the world. However, if this book helps just one entrepreneur
avoid suffering as I did, keep their business open, or accomplish their dreams, it will all be worth it.
If you're willing to exchange the time it takes to watch two episodes of your favorite TV show
and really study this book, and if you implement even a single offer component,
I can guarantee you will add more clients and more dollars to your bottom line.
Reading this book and taking it to heart will be the single greatest return on time for your
business. Nothing else will allow you to do what this book can do in the same amount of time.
That is a promise. As a side benefit, implementing a new offer is about one of the easiest things
to do in a business, so you really can do this. This isn't some management practice or culture
building who do. This is the real how you sell shit for lots of money, type stuff.
What's in it for me? I give all these materials this book, the accompanying course and all the
books and courses which you can find at acquisition.com for free or at cost in order to help as many
people as humanly possible make more and serve more. I've made these with the intention of providing
more value than you can get from a thousand dollar course, any thirty thousand dollar coaching program,
and hilariously more than two hundred thousand dollar college degree.
And I do this because although I could sell these materials in that format, I just don't want to.
I've made my money doing this stuff, not teaching how to do this stuff,
contrary to most of the marketing community at large. So my model is different. I'll explain more in a
second. That being said, there are two key archetypes I am trying to provide value to with my
published materials. For arch type number one, entrepreneurs under three million dollars per year
in revenue, my goal is to help you get there and earn your trust. Try just a couple of taxes from
this book, watch them work and try a few more, watch them work and so on. The more you see results
in your own business, the better. Once you succeed, you'll become arch type number two. Entrepreneurs
at minimum between three to ten million a year in revenue. Once you get there or if that's you
now, I'd be honored to invest in your business and help you cross thirty, fifty, or even a hundred
million plus. I don't sell coaching masterminds or courses or anything like that. Instead, I have
a portfolio of companies I take equity interest in. I use the infrastructure resources in teams of
all my companies to fast track their growth, but don't believe me yet. We just met. If you're curious,
my business model is simple, just like the four piece pyramid logo of acquisition.com.
Step one, provide value at no cost, foreign access to what the rest of the marketplace charges for.
Step two, have entrepreneurs use the materials that actually work and make money helping more folks.
Step three, earn the trust of the hyper-executor business owners who use the frameworks to scale
their businesses to three to ten million dollars per year and beyond. Step four, invest in
those businesses to make more impact at scale while helping every single other entrepreneur for free.
If you look carefully, the process refers to engineer's success. I think it's pretty cool.
Here's how. I know these business owners can execute the frameworks I have without
handling, and therefore would be very likely to succeed with the next set of frameworks.
Getting to thirty million, fifty million, hundred million, looks different than getting
to three to ten million. They know my style works for them because it already has. So we operate
on shared trust. I trust they can execute and they trust that our stuff works again because it
already has. All while helping everyone else vote for it. So it allows me to preemptively
avoid failures and dramatically increase success like the hood. Let me show you how much.
At the time of this writing, every business I have started since March of 2017 has achieved a
$1.5 million per month run rate, at least. According to the Small Business Administration,
the odds of a single business even achieving $10 million a year or $833,000 per month,
which is almost half of what I just said, are 0.4% or one in two hundred and fifty.
Having it happen four times in a row is 0.4% times 0.4% times 0.4% times 0.4%.
Or in other words, very, very, very low probability that it was luck.
As such, I can say with conviction that we know how to recreate success using the frameworks I share
over and over again. They work because they are timeless business principles.
I actively visualize every day how it felt to wake up in the middle of the night in cold sweats,
wondering how it would make payroll. That gut-wrenching meditation keeps me hungry as an entrepreneur,
but also grateful for my security and peace of mind. I want the latter for you and anyone else who
gives a damn about what they do. Fair enough? Cool, so let's get to it. Basic outline of this book.
This book is intended to be a resource. As a resource, I mean, it will be something that you read
through, then keeping your toolbox coming back to it again and again.
It says, never memorize anything you can look up. Business is not a spectator sport.
You're not climbing for some midterm, and you're not some lymph-rested philosopher. You do work,
and to work, you need tools. This, my friend, is one of those tools.
General outline. Section 1. How we got here. You just finished it. Section 2. Pricing. How to charge
lots of money for stuff. Section 3. Value. Create your offer. How to make something so good.
People line up to buy. Section 4. Enhancing your offer. How to make your offer so good,
they feel stupid saying no. Section 5. Next steps. How to make this happen in the
World War? For free courses and books, so good, they grow your business without your consent.
Go to acquisition.com.
Hey guys, real quick. Hope you enjoyed the first five chapters of 100 million dollar offers.
If you didn't know this, we actually have a full course for 100 million dollar offers that
accompanies the book that is absolutely free. It's on my site at acquisition.com for
slash training. We have other courses there for free as well. There's no opt-in required.
You can just go there, watch, enjoy it. We've got downloads and checklists that you can use
so you can fix your offer, improve your offer, and ultimately make more money.
And next episode, episode 2, we're going to be talking about pricing and the commodity problem.
We're going to talk about how to find a starving crowd and how to charge what it's worth.
Acquisition.com Volume 1. 100 million dollar offers. How to make offers so good,
people feel stupid saying no. Written and performed by Alex Ramose. Copyright 2021.
Acquisition.com Audio Production Copyright 2021. Acquisition.com
